REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was
held on Wednesday, September 19, 2018, at 9:36 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City
Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Heather Deal, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr*
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Raymond Louie*
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*, Vice-Chair
ABSENT: Councillor Kerry Jang (Medical Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
1. Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674
August 31, 2018
The General Manager of Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, along with staff from
Financial Services and Housing Policy, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the recommendations.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 2
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the amendments to the Vacancy Tax By-law as described in the
Administrative Report dated August 31, 2018, entitled “Amendments to Vacancy Tax
By-law No. 11674”, and instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment a by-law to amend the Vacancy Tax By-law generally as set out in Appendix A
of the above-noted Administrative Report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03333)
(Councillor Louie absent for the vote)
2. Contract Award for the Supply and Delivery of Pipe and Fittings
August 20, 2018
The Committee heard from one speaker who provided general comments related to the report.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services, the Director of Legal Services and the Chief
Procurement Officer, and enter into a contract with Flocor Inc., for the supply and
delivery of pipe and fittings, for a term of up to a total of seven years, with an
initial five year term and options to extend for two additional one year terms, for
an estimated contract value of $7,063,714, plus applicable taxes over the initial
three years of the contract, subject to approved available funding;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and
General Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of
the City the contract contemplated by A above.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of
A above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03334)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
3. Contract Award for Roddan Lodge Construction
August 21, 2018
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with Smith Bros. & Wilson
(B.C.) Ltd. for the construction of the new Roddan Lodge social housing facility

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 3
located at 124 Dunlevy Avenue for an estimated term of approximately 2.5 years
with an estimated contract value of $44,836,761.00, plus GST over the term.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve additional project funding
of $6.7 million; source of funding to be $5.4 million debenture from 2015-2018
Capital Plan, $0.4 million Community Facilities debenture from Citywide
unallocated closeout surplus and $0.9 million from Capital Facilities Reserve; and
that Council approve $1.3 million ($0.4 million from Citywide unallocated closeout
surplus and $0.9 million from Capital Facilities reserve) increase to the
2015-2018 Capital Plan and to the Multi-Year Capital Project Budget. 2018
expenditures will be managed within the overall approved 2018 Annual Capital
Expenditure Budget.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management be authorized to execute on
behalf of the City the contract contemplated by A above.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of
A above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A, B and C above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03335)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
4. Contract Award for Fire Hall 17 Construction
August 21, 2018
The General Manager of Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management responded to questions.
The registered speaker waived his request to speak.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with D.G.S.
Construction Company Ltd., for the construction of Fire Hall 17, for an estimated
term of approximately two years with an estimated contract value of
$17,780,952.38 plus GST over the term of the contract.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve additional project funding
of $4.8 million; source of funding is the Capital Facility Reserve; and that Council
approve a $4.8 million increase to the 2015-2018 Capital Plan and to the
Multi-Year Capital Budget. Expenditures will be managed within the overall
approved 2018 Annual Capital Expenditure Budget;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management be authorized to
execute on behalf of the City the contract contemplated by A above.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 4
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A and B above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03336)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
5. Proposed Amendment to Subdivision By-law 5208 – Reclassification of 728 to 888
West 48th Avenue and 6426 Fremlin Street
August 16, 2018
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the application to reclassify the properties at 728 to 888 West
48th Avenue and 6426 Fremlin Street, from Category D to Category A of Schedule A,
Table 1, of Subdivision By-law No. 5208;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-law to amend the Subdivision By-law implementing the required change.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03337)
(Councillor Louie and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
6. Vancouver Heritage Foundation – Approval of Revised Constitution and Bylaws
August 24, 2018
The registered speaker waived his request to speak.
MOVED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT the Mayor and the City Councillors, in their capacity as the Honorary Members of
The City of Vancouver Heritage Conservation Foundation, now known as the Vancouver
Heritage Foundation (“VHF”), pass the written resolution attached as Appendix 1 to the
Administrative Report dated August 24, 2018, entitled “Vancouver Heritage Foundation –
Approval of Revised Constitution and Bylaws”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03338)
(Councillors Carr, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent for vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 5
7. Enactment Report: 650 West 41st Avenue (Oakridge Centre)
August 27, 2018
Staff from the Park Board responded to questions.
The registered speaker waived his request to speak.
MOVED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT the conditions of by-law enactment as set out in the Public Hearing Minutes dated
March 10, 11 and 14, 2014, be amended as set out in Appendix B of the Administrative
Report dated August 27, 2018, entitled “Enactment Report: 650 West 41st Avenue
(Oakridge Centre)”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03339)
(Councillor Stevenson and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
8. Theatre Rental Grants Supplemental Assistance for Fall 2018 and Spring 2019 and
One-time Grant to Vancouver Symphony Orchestra to Support 100th Anniversary
Programming
August 21, 2018
The registered speaker for this item was not present.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve Theatre Rental Grants one-time supplemental assistance
to seven organizations totalling $22,458 as listed in Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated August 21, 2018, entitled “Theatre Rental Grants
Supplemental Assistance for Fall 2018 and Spring 2019 and One-time Grant to
Vancouver Symphony Orchestra to Support 100th Anniversary Programming”,
for use of the Civic Theatres from September 1 to December 31, 2018, and
hereby deems the organizations to be contributing to the culture of the City;
source of funds is the Theatre Rental Grants portion of the 2018 Cultural Grants
budget.
B. THAT Council approve, in advance of the 2019 Operating Budget, 2019 Theatre
Rental Grants one-time supplemental assistance to six organizations totalling
$31,249 as listed in Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated
August 21, 2018, entitled “Theatre Rental Grants Supplemental Assistance for
Fall 2018 and Spring 2019 and One-time Grant to Vancouver Symphony
Orchestra to Support 100th Anniversary Programming”, for use of the Civic
Theatres from January 1 to August 31, 2019, and hereby deems the
organizations to be contributing to the culture of the City; source of funds is the
Theatre Rental Grants portion of the 2019 Cultural Grants budget.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 6
C. THAT Council approve a one-time grant to the Vancouver Symphony Society
totalling $150,000 for use of the Civic Theatres to support the 100th Anniversary
celebration programming; source of funding is the City’s 2018 Council
contingency budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 03340)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
9. Making Room for Families: Innovative Solutions to Help Provide the Most
Affordable Family Housing in the city of Vancouver
The registered speaker for this item was not present.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS:
1. The Vancouver Housing Strategy proposes a 10-year housing strategy on the
City of Vancouver website and sets priorities of the policy to include: building
more affordable housing, addressing and limiting the over-inflated cost of land
that is driving up housing prices, ensuring the right types of homes are built –
homes our residents need and can afford, protecting and renewing existing
affordable rental housing across Vancouver, providing housing and support for
our most vulnerable residents, streamlining City processes for faster housing
development;
2. The City of Vancouver website states that Vancouver should be a place where
“Neighbourhoods are full of families, young people can afford to buy a home
and People of all incomes and backgrounds can participate in their
communities”;
3. There are several models utilized internationally for Affordable Home Ownership
that may not require a change to the Vancouver Charter;
4. Council unanimously supported a motion put forward in 2015 by Councillor
De Genova for Affordable Home Ownership. From this motion, the Chief Housing
Officer proposed policy also unanimously supported by Council, titled “Affordable
Homeownership Pilot Program”, that is said to require an amendment to the
Vancouver Charter to proceed’;
5. Inboard and borrowed light bedrooms may allow architects and developers to
provide creative and innovative solutions to technical design requirements and
build more bedrooms and family housing. The City of Vancouver currently does
not recognize inboard or borrowed light bedrooms in approved design guidelines.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 7
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to explore possible ways within the Vancouver Charter
to move forward with a program similar to the Affordable Home Ownership Pilot
Program proposed by the City of Vancouver.
B. THAT Council direct staff to implement a pilot program to implement inboard and
borrowed light bedrooms to create more affordable housing, with more bedrooms
that is suitable for families.
C. THAT Council direct staff to expedite permits for housing that provides the most
affordable family housing options.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council refer the Motion entitled “Making Room for Families: Innovative Solutions
to Help Provide the Most Affordable Family Housing in the city of Vancouver”, to staff for
incorporation in the report back on housing initiatives in January 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03341)
(Councillor Stevenson abstained from the vote)
(Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains from
voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative”.)
The Committee adjourned at 11:18 am.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
September 19, 2018, at 11:19 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations
and actions of the Committee. Subsequently, the Council meeting reconvened at 5:08 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang* (Medical Leave)
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, September 19, 2018
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674
2. Contract Award for the Supply and Delivery of Pipe and Fittings
3. Contract Award for Roddan Lodge Construction
4. Contract Award for Fire Hall 17 Construction
5. Proposed Amendment to Subdivision By-law 5208 – Reclassification of 728 to 888 West
48th Avenue and 6426 Fremlin Street
6. Vancouver Heritage Foundation – Approval of Revised Constitution and Bylaws
7. Enactment Report: 650 West 41st Avenue (Oakridge Centre)
8. Theatre Rental Grants – Supplemental Assistance for Fall 2018 and Spring 2019 and
One-time Grant to Vancouver Symphony Orchestra to support 100th Anniversary
Programming
9. Making Room for Families: Innovative Solutions to Help Provide the Most Affordable
Family Housing in the City of Vancouver

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 2
Items 1 to 9
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of September 19, 2018, as contained in items 1 to 9,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
ITEM 8 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave)
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
On September 18, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the following items to the Regular
Council meeting immediately following the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
on September 19, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
1. Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets
September 5, 2018
The City Manager and Deputy City Manager responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT Council approve the engineering lands, south side of the Cambie Bridge,
east off-ramp, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix A to the
Administrative Report dated September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative
Naming of Various Civic Assets”, be named as “Barbara Howard Plaza”.
B. THAT Council approve the triangular plaza where Main Street and Kingsway
meet, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix B to the Administrative
Report dated September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various
Civic Assets”, be named as “Gertrude Guerin Plaza”.
C. THAT Council approve the portion of Ross Street, south of East 63rd Avenue to
SE Marine Drive at the Khalsa Diwan Society Ross Sikh Temple, be given the
commemorative supplementary name of “Khalsa Diwan Road”.
D. THAT Council approve the plaza at Trutch Street and Broadway, as shown on the
graphic attached as Appendix D to the Administrative Report dated
September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets”,
be named as “Harnam Kaur Plaza”.
E. THAT Council approve the bridge over the Grandview Cut at Commercial Drive,
as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix E to the Administrative Report
dated September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic
Assets”, be named as “Hide Hyodo Shimizu Bridge”.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 3
F. THAT Council approve the plaza at the north end of Spyglass Place, as shown
on the graphic attached as Appendix F to the Administrative Report dated
September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets”,
be named as “Husain Rahim Plaza”.
G. THAT Council approve the Town Hall Meeting Room in City Hall be named the
“Joe Wai Meeting Room”.
H. THAT Council approve the Japanese garden at City Hall, as shown on the
graphic attached as Appendix G to the Administrative Report dated
September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets”,
be named as “Manzo Nagano Garden”.
I. THAT Council approve the public space at Commercial Drive and Napier Street,
as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix H to the Administrative Report
dated September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic
Assets”, be named as “Margaret Mitchell Plaza”.
J. THAT Council approve the West 16th Avenue tree boulevard, as shown on the
graphic attached as Appendices I, J, K, L, M, N, and O to the Administrative
Report dated September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various
Civic Assets”, be named as “Master Toa Wong Commemorative Boulevard”.
K. THAT Council approve the North Arm Trail Greenway, as shown on the graphic
attached as Appendix P to the Administrative Report dated September 5, 2018,
entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets”, be re-named as
“Masumi Mitsui Greenway”.
L. THAT Council approve the plaza with clock at Kingsway and Joyce Street, as
shown on the graphic attached as Appendix Q to the Administrative Report dated
September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets”,
be named as “Mel Tobias Plaza”.
M. THAT Council approve the overpass crossing the railway tracks at Raymur
Avenue and connecting with Keefer Street, as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix R to the Administrative Report dated September 5, 2018, entitled
“Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets”, be named as “Militant
Mothers of Raymur Overpass”.
N. THAT Council approve the area known as the Olympic Village Plaza, as shown
on the graphic attached as Appendix S to the Administrative Report dated
September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative Naming of Various Civic Assets”,
be named as “Milton Wong Plaza”.
O. THAT Council approve the plaza at the Southwest corner of Pender Street and
Beatty Street, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix T to the
Administrative Report dated September 5, 2018, entitled “Commemorative
Naming of Various Civic Assets”, be named as “Sara Anne McLagan Plaza”.
P. THAT Council approve the use of $193,000 from the 2018 Council Contingency
budget to fund the naming of the civic asset sites outlined in A to O above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03342)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave)

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 4
2. Ensuring Drinking Water in Vancouver Public Facilities is Lead-Free
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
WHEREAS
1. We must ensure safe drinking water for everyone using City and Park Board
facilities;
2. The National Plumbing Code of Canada allowed lead as an acceptable material
in pipes until 1975 and in solder until 1986;
3. Lead can be harmful to human health, even in very small amounts. Lead is most
serious for pregnant women and young children because infants and children
absorb lead more easily than adults and are more susceptible to its harmful
effects, such as effects on behaviour and intelligence.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to:
1. Review any testing results for drinking water lead levels in City and Park Board
facilities performed to date. If there are elevated lead levels undertake mitigation
strategies and create testing/monitoring plans to ensure the effectiveness of the
strategies.
2. Develop a comprehensive plan to regularly monitor drinking water lead levels in
City and Park Board facilities. If any elevated lead levels are found undertake
mitigation strategies and create testing/monitoring plans to ensure the
effectiveness of the strategies.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03343)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave)
3. An Imminent Risk to Local Government Democracy in British Columbia:
Anticipated Record Low Turnout for the 2018 Local Government Elections
MOVED by Councillor Affleck
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The Province of British Columbia has moved local government elections in 2018
up one month to October 20 from the traditional November election date,
significantly reducing the crucially-important post-Labour Day local government
election campaigning period;
2. New local government election campaign finance restrictions in place for the
2018 local government elections will likely result in a significant reduction in
campaign advertising than has traditionally been the case;
3. The Province of British Columbia has not provided any tax credits, subsidies or
transitional funding to assist candidates or elector organizations for the 2018
local government elections;

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 5
4. A province-wide referendum on proportional representation is taking place during
the same time period as the 2018 local government elections which may lead to
considerable voter confusion;
5. To date, neither Elections BC, the various the regional districts, nor the Union of
British Columbia Municipalities have undertaken any special public awareness
campaigns surrounding the 2018 local government elections in British Columbia;
6. A very real threat exists that the 2018 local government elections in British
Columbia may see record low levels of voter turnout due to the collective impact
of the above-noted factors;
7. The democratic effectiveness of local government, and local government
elections, in British Columbia requires that more – not fewer – eligible voters are
actively encouraged to engage and participate in the local government electoral
process.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT given the unique set of circumstances evident in
advance of the upcoming 2018 local government elections in British Columbia –
circumstances which may collectively lead to record low voter turnout and a resulting
diminishment of the democratic effectiveness of local government – that Vancouver City
Council, through the Mayor, make an urgent request to the Province of British Columbia
to immediately consider enhancing the existing communications budgets for Elections
BC, the various regional districts, and the Union of British Columbia Municipalities to
help raise public awareness of the imminent 2018 local government elections in British
Columbia on an emergency basis.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the motion be amended to read as follows:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT given the unique set of circumstances
evident in advance of the upcoming 2018 local government elections in British
Columbia – circumstances which may collectively lead to record low voter turnout
and a resulting diminished effectiveness of local government – that Vancouver
City Council, through the Mayor, make an urgent request to the Province of
British Columbia to immediately enhance the existing communications budgets
for Elections BC and the Union of British Columbia Municipalities to help raise
public awareness of the imminent 2018 local government elections in British
Columbia.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03344)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave)
The amendment having carried unanimously, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03346) (Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave).

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 6
* * * * *
At 12:00 pm it was
MOVED by Councillor Affleck
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave)
* * * * *
4. Taking Steps to Ensure the Integrity of Voting in the 2018 Vancouver Municipal
Election
Council agreed to separate the components of the following motion for the vote.
MOVED by Councillor Affleck
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
WHEREAS
1. At the January 21, 2015, Planning, Transportation, and Environment
Standing Committee, Vancouver City Council passed a motion regarding
the planning and delivery of the 2014 municipal election and directed staff
to report back on the 2014 municipal election – including the role of
Elections BC in municipal elections, the processes in place for the 2014
municipal election, and the public inquiries submitted to the City;
2. Media reporting during the 2014 municipal election included reports of
confusion and irregularities at polling stations, including but not limited to,
insufficient ballots, eligible voters – including seniors and persons with
disabilities – being discouraged by long waits, inconsistent identification
checking, inconsistent information regarding the role of Elections BC in
the civic election process, and other technical issues;
3. The 2014 municipal election was the first time the City of Vancouver
allowed voters to vote at any polling station in the city and saw the
introduction of electronic Voters List technology into the Vancouver
election process, with real-time strike off intended to ensure voting
integrity under the “Vote Anywhere” model;
4. In the 2014 Vancouver municipal election there were 5,930 “over-votes”
in the councillor race, which translates into 593 over-voted ballots, while
in 2011 there were 159 over-voted ballots for the council race and in 2008
the comparable figure was 134 over-voted ballots;
5. Subsequent to the 2014 municipal election, Vancouver City Council
established an Independent Election Task Force to recommend changes,
based on Council directives, concerning the delivery of municipal
elections in the City of Vancouver, including an intention to improve public

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 7
confidence in the electoral processes at the municipal level and increase
voter engagement;
6. The Task Force’s Final Report cites six measures of public confidence
and voter engagement:
• political equality where participation is not limited by ethnicity,
geographic location, political affiliation, gender, sexual orientation,
etc.
• the representation of diverse viewpoints
• accountability of representatives to voters on an ongoing basis
between elections
• voter satisfaction in candidates
• voter political knowledge
• voter turnout;
7. New ballot tabulating machines, which count ballot selections by optically
scanning ballots as they are placed through the machine, were leased by
the City in 2014 to replace machines purchased by the City in 1996, and
new ballot tabulating machines were introduced for the 2017 Vancouver
By-election;
8. The introduction of “Vote Anywhere” in 2014, which required the use of
new voting technology (i.e., electronic Voters List software, laptops, and
card scanners), also necessitated significant changes to the hiring
process for the local election to ensure that election officials possessed
the necessary skills to operate the equipment;
9. An 11-year-old boy was recently able to hack into a replica of Florida’s
election system in 10 minutes during a test ahead of upcoming US
midterm elections – the fastest of 35 children who were able to hack into
replicas of the websites of six swing states during the three-day Def Con
security convention – raising concern about the security of America’s
election systems and the security of election systems globally;
10. Section 122 (6) of the Vancouver Charter (Retention and destruction of
election materials) states that ballots and other election materials must be
“destroyed as soon as practicable following 8 weeks after the declaration
of the official election results under section 108” which could preclude any
subsequent need to confirm and/or affirm the legitimate outcome of the
2018 Vancouver election.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT
A. In the interest of fostering and maintaining public confidence in the municipal
voting process, Vancouver City Council direct staff to request approval and
consent from the Province to retain the physical election ballots that will be cast
in the upcoming October 20, 2018, Vancouver municipal election for an extended
period of time before they are destroyed, compared to the 8 week period in
previous elections under the Vancouver Charter, to ensure that these physical
ballots are available for any subsequent manual recount that may be required to
confirm and/or affirm or legitimate the outcome of the 2018 Vancouver election.
amended

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 8
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
THAT A be struck and replaced with the following:
Council direct staff to request consent from the Province to retain the physical
election ballots for an extended period of time than currently provided for in the
Vancouver Charter to ensure that these physical ballots are available for any
subsequent manual recount that may arise from unforeseen challenges to the
legitimacy of the 2018 municipal election.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03347)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave)
B. Staff be directed to employ the services of an accredited third party to test and
harden the City’s elections security protocols and electronic voting systems to
ensure that they are not, and cannot be, compromised by illegal hacking
activities that could invalidate the integrity of the voting process.
LOST (Vote No. 03349)
(Councillors Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote on Medical Leave)
5. Family Friendly Vancouver: Citywide Policy to Fast Track and Expedite Projects
that Include new Child Care Centres in the City of Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
WHEREAS:
1. Vancouver is facing an affordability crisis. A lack of affordable housing and
affordable childcare are causing families to move away and out of the City of
Vancouver;
2. In 2018 the Provincial Government released “Childcare B.C., Caring For Kids,
Lifting Up Families: The Path To Universal Childcare”. The document states
“Vancouver is one of the most expensive cities for Childcare with a median fee of
$1,250 per month for infant and toddler care.” The document also commits to
providing grants to local governments in British Columbia to support building new
child care spaces and create plans to inform local needs;
3. June 26, 2018, The City of Vancouver issued a press release celebrating 1064
new child care spaces. On the City of Vancouver website, Mayor Gregor
Robertson is stated as saying “Making sure that families have access to
affordable childcare is a key part of building a healthy, inclusive city and helps set
our kids up for success now and down the road”;
4. The City of Vancouver Document “Technical Guidelines” published by Real
Estate and Facilities Management in May of 2018 states that “Development
Permits may be required for new childcare facilities. Building and Occupancy
Permits are required for all new childcare facilities;

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 9
5. Child Care facilities Childcare License will need to be obtained by the Childcare
Operator from Community Care Facilities Licensing, a department of Vancouver
Coastal Health, before an Occupancy Permit can be obtained. Nowhere in the
document does it state that there is an policy or initiate for a streamlined or
expedited process for new childcare facilities;
6. The City of Vancouver Document “Steps for Establishing a Child Care Centre in
an Existing Building” published by the Social Development Department was last
updated in 2008;
7. The City of Vancouver website page “Developing a childcare centre” states “Staff
work with developers, architects, landscape architects, and early childhood
educators to make sure that every new center includes urban design best
practices, and contributes to a child’s mental and physical development.” There is
no mention of incentives or expediting or streamlining permits or processes for
new child care facilities in the City of Vancouver;
8. The City of Vancouver lists in item 5. b) in the City of Vancouver Fee for a Class
V (Air Space) Parcel “for developments having a Floor Space Ratio (FSR) of 3.0
or less, or where the application is solely for the purpose of creating air space
parcels to secure separate tenure for public benefits such as libraries, theatres
and other cultural amenities, for-profit affordable rental housing, social housing or
day care” to cost $42,600.00 This fee does only covers the City of Vancouver fee
and is subsequent to any fees the applicant may incur in creating the air space
parcel;
9. The City of Vancouver Webpage “Creating and Protecting Rental Housing” lists
Rental 100 Policy, stating “Eligible incentives including: Development cost levy
(DCL) waiver, Parking requirement reductions, Relaxation of unit size to 320
square feet (provided the design and location meet the City’s liveability criteria),
Additional density beyond what is available under existing zoning (for projects
requiring a rezoning), Concurrent processing (for projects requiring a rezoning)”.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to implement a policy to specifically encourage
applicants to consider the development of projects that include childcare facilities
and offer incentives to applicants, similar to incentives offered in the City of
Vancouver Rental 100: Secured Market Rental Policy.
B. THAT Council direct staff to consider a policy where any residential rental
housing projects built on Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency and City of
Vancouver owned land, include child care facilities as an amenity when
appropriate.
C. THAT Council direct staff to review the City of Vancouver fees, including but not
limited to air space parcels and consider waiving or reducing fees charged for the
development of child care facilities;
FURTHER THAT, staff also consider fast tracking and expediting the process for
development applications that have been approved by Council and include child
care facilities.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 10
D. THAT Council direct staff to work with Vancouver Coastal Health and the British
Columbia Provincial government to streamline and expedite permit and licensing
processes for child care facilities in the City of Vancouver.
referred
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:20 and reconvened at 5:08 pm.
* * * * *
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Motion entitled “Family Friendly Vancouver: Citywide Policy to Fast Track and
Expedite Projects that Include new Child Care Centres in the City of Vancouver”, be
referred to staff as part of the ongoing work they have already been directed to do as
part of the Making Room initiative and which is expected to report back in June 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03350)
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to enact the By-laws prior to considering the
Urgent Business items.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Note: For clarity, the following agenda items are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
BY-LAWS
Councillor Stevenson advised he had reviewed the proceedings with regard to By-laws 3, 4 and 5
and would be voting on the enactments.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 5 inclusive, and authorize
the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 11
1. A By-law to exempt from taxation certain lands and improvements pursuant to section
396 of the Vancouver Charter (By-law No. 12269)
2. A By-law to provide for the imposition of interest on delinquent property taxes for 2019
(By-Law No. 12270)
3. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (650 West 41st Avenue) (By-law No. 12271)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote)
4. A By-law to amend the Zoning and Development By-law Re: 5733 Cambie Street
(By-law No. 12272)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote)
5. A By-law to amend the Zoning and Development By-law Re: 625-659 West 45th Avenue,
688 Fairchild Road and 5926 - 6076 Tisdall Street (By-law No. 12273)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote)
URGENT BUSINESS
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later today which are closed to the public, pursuant
to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to paragraphs:
(a) Personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being
considered for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another
position appointed by the city;
(b) Personal information about an identifiable individual who is being considered for an
award or honour, or who has offered to provide a gift to the city on condition of
anonymity.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. Approval of Form of Development: 650 West 41st Avenue (Oakridge Centre)
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this portion of the CD-1 zoned site known as
Oakridge Centre (650 West 41st Avenue being the application address) be approved
generally as illustrated in the Development Permit number DP-2018-00166 prepared by
Henriquez Partners Architects, and stamped “Received, Community Service Group,
Development Services, April 30, 2018”, provided that the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability may approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of this site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 19, 2018 12
2. Oakridge Design Guidelines
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the document entitled “Oakridge Design Guidelines” as considered by Council at
Public Hearing on March 10, 11 and 14, 2014, be approved by Council for use by
applicants and staff for development applications in the relevant district.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 5:19 pm.
* * * * *