PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 18 AND 19, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, September 18, 2018, at
3:08 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the meeting recessed
and reconvened on Wednesday, September 19, 2018, at 1:06 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Kerry Jang (Medical Leave - September 18, 2018)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 2
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law and
the East Fraser lands Official Development Plan and related CD-1 By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson
opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
(Councillor Jang absent on Medical Leave for this item on September 18, 2018)
1. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 349 West Georgia Street (Former Main Post Office)
An application by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership was considered as follows:
Summary: To designate as protected heritage property the exterior and selected interior
elements of the existing building at 349 West Georgia Street (Former Main
Post Office), which is listed on the Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘A’
evaluation category.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was scheduled for public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 3:14 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law
to designate as protected heritage property the exterior and selected interior

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 3
elements of the existing building at 349 West Georgia Street [Block 46, District
Lot 541, Plan VAP210 (the “site”)], known as the Former Main Post Office (the
“heritage building”), which is listed on the Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘A’
evaluation category.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03328)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
(Councillor Jang absent on Medical Leave for this item on September 18, 2018)
2. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 1170 Barclay St (the Florida)
An application by Hearth Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To add the existing heritage building at 1170 Barclay Street (the Florida) to the
Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘B’ evaluation category, to designate the
exterior and the structure of the heritage building as protected heritage
property, and to enter into a Heritage Revitalization Agreement which secures
the rehabilitation and long-term preservation of the heritage building, and
permits an addition to the building.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was scheduled for public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 3:17 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 4
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council add the existing building at 1170 Barclay Street [PID: 004-
753-143, Lot 8, Block 21, District Lot 185, Plan 92 (the “site”)] known as the
Florida (the “heritage building”) to the Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘B’
evaluation category.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law
to designate the exterior and the structure of the heritage building as protected
heritage property.
C. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment under Section 592 of the Vancouver Charter a by-law for the City to
enter into a Heritage Revitalization Agreement (HRA) to:
(i) secure the rehabilitation and long-term preservation of the heritage
building; and
(ii) vary the Zoning and Development By-law as necessary to permit an
addition to the building as detailed in Development Permit Application
Number DE418401 (the “DP Application”) and as more particularly
described in the report dated August 13, 2018, entitled “1170 Barclay
Street - (the Florida) - Heritage Designation and Heritage Revitalization
Agreement”.
D. THAT the Heritage Revitalization Agreement shall be completed, noted,
registered, and given priority on title to the site to the satisfaction of the Director
of Legal Services.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03329)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
(Councillor Jang absent on Medical Leave for this item on September 18, 2018)

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 5
3. TEXT AMENDMENTS: East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan 10-year
Review Planning Program: Progress Update and By-law Amendments for a New
Community Centre Site and Affordable Housing
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the East Fraser Lands (EFL) Official Development Plan (ODP) and
related CD-1 By-laws to allow for redistribution of existing floor area from the
community centre site to adjacent market development sites; to increase the
maximum floor area to allow addition of 5,129 square metres (55,208 square
feet) of affordable housing on Parcels 1 and 13; to remove EFL specific
parking requirements to create alignment with the Parking By-law; and to
make minor miscellaneous amendments to the EFL ODP and related CD-1
By-laws.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since being referred to public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 16 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 4 pieces of correspondence in opposition of the application;
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other aspects of the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a presentation on the application and
responded to questions.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Kyla Epstein, Vancouver Public Library Board Chair,
George Chow, MLA, Vancouver-Fraserview
Kimberley Berger, Executive Director, South Vancouver Family Place Society
Beau Jarvis, Executive Vice President, Wesgroup Properties
Rachel Selinger, Generation Squeeze
Daniel K. Chung
Davon Hussack

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 6
Billie Aadmi
Esther Moreno spoke in general support of the application with conditions.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 4:09 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing remarks and responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan By-law No. 9393, generally in accordance with Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan 10-year Review Planning Program: Progress Update and
By-law Amendments for a New Community Centre Site and Affordable Housing”,
to achieve the following:
(i) A standalone site for a future community centre in East Fraser Lands; and
(ii) Increase the total density to allow for an additional 5,129 sq. m
(55,208 sq. ft.) of Affordable Housing in Area 1 and Area 2.
B. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law, generally in accordance with the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018,
entitled “East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan 10-year Review Planning
Program: Progress Update and By-law Amendments for a New Community
Centre Site and Affordable Housing” to:
(i) Amend CD-1 (567) By-law No. 10943 for the East Fraser Lands
Waterfront Precinct, to increase the maximum height from 19 to 24
storeys, to reduce the maximum floor area from 112,961 sq. m
(1,215,902 sq. ft.) to 103,917 sq. m (1,118,552 sq. ft.) and to make
housekeeping amendments, generally as presented in Appendix B of the
above-noted report, subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT FOR CD-1 (567)
(a) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 7
Urban Design
In addition to the design development conditions approved by Council for
the CD-1 rezoning of East Fraser Lands (Town Square, Park and
Waterfront Precincts), as recorded in the Public Hearing Minutes,
Tuesday, September 16, 2008, the Director of Planning or the
Development Permit Board shall consider the following conditions:
1. Submission of revised Design Guidelines for the parcels that are
modified under this text amendment (i.e. Parcels 26, 27, 29/30, 31
and 32 in Area 1), to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning.
Note to Applicant: The draft design guidelines in Appendix E of the
above-noted report require further staff review, and will be subject
to further revision and refinement.
2. Design development to improve the interface to mitigate the
impact of above grade parkades on the street elevation and
improve the interface of private development with the public realm.
Note to Applicant: In cases where parkades must protrude above
grade, increased setbacks to accommodate enhanced
landscaping, breaks or terracing in the massing, stair access
and/or views to internal courtyards, enhanced cladding treatments
of exposed parkade walls, and other design treatments are
recommended to achieve visual porosity and animation in the
pedestrian realm.
Parcel 29/30
3. Design development to limit tower floorplate, above 21.3 m (70 ft.)
in height, to 697 sq. m (7,500 sq. ft.), measured to the far extent of
the building massing including inset or enclosed balconies, but
excluding projecting balconies.
4. Design development to create consistent streetwalls along River
District Crossing (High Street) and Mews G, with a minimum 2.4 m
(8 ft.), above the 5th storey.
Parcel 31
5. Design development to animate key street frontages, by locating
active uses along the plaza, River District Crossing (High Street)
and Mews G.
Note to Applicant: Active uses may include multi-purpose and/or
activity rooms, gymnasium, lobby, library reading rooms, etc.
Where possible, the rooms should have secondary entries onto
the street and/or plaza, to create opportunities for indoor/outdoor
programming.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 8
6. Design development to provide a principle entry facing River
District Crossing (High Street), and to provide a secondary entry
and visual connection from Mews G to the plaza.
7. Design development to align the building frontage on North Arm
Avenue with the massing on the adjacent Parcel 27, to create a
consistent streetwall and framed view down the street end to the
plaza.
8. Design development to locate childcare and associated outdoor
spaces at Level 2 or above, and to rationalize the massing of the
upper storeys to create larger, more functional outdoor play
spaces.
9. Design development to optimize and rationalize the use of double
height spaces, to create views between key “public” spaces
(i.e. lobby, mezzanine) and between spaces with related programs
(i.e. fitness room and gymnasium).
Note to Applicant: To maximize efficiency, double- and over-height
spaces should not be provided for back-of-house or administrative
uses.
Design development to provide power and water to support events
and activities in the Public Plaza area.
Parcel 32.1 and Parcel 32.2
10. Design development to align the building face to create a framed
view, along Road B, to the riverfront down the street end.
11. Design development to accommodate a continuous waterfront
pedestrian/bike facility (each path minimum 4.0 m wide, plus
separation and clearance width), including a minimum 3.3 ft.
(1.0 m) landscape setback where adjacent to the building face.
Note to Applicant: In the event that a lease cannot be secured for
the foreshore, Parcels 32.1 and/or 32.2 may need to be adjusted
to ensure the waterfront pathways can be accommodated on
Public land or through statutory rights-of-way. Any affected density
assigned to Parcel 32.1 or 32.2 will be shifted to another site
within the CD-1 boundary.
12. Design development to achieve a high standard of architectural
and urban design innovation and excellence, in which the
buildings serves to frame, complement and animate the public
plaza.
13. Design development to Parcel 32.1, as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 9
(i) align the building frontage on North-Arm Avenue with the
massing on the adjacent Parcel 28, to create a consistent
streetwall and framed view to the plaza;
(ii) terrace the massing down towards the plaza and towards
the riverfront, and to sculpt the massing to maximize public
views;
(iii) create active retail use at grade, with a primary frontage on
the plaza to engage and animate the public realm; and
(iv) create an active, transparent building frontage on the plaza
and street frontages, with a major retail space(s) at grade.
14. Design development to Parcel 32.2, to sculpt the massing and
building height to maximize public and private views to the plaza
and riverfront.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT FOR CD-1 (567)
(b) That, prior to enactment of the by-law amending CD-1 (567), the
registered owner shall on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director
of Legal Services and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering Services, and
Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Updated Subdivision Plan
1. Obtain approval of and deposit for registration of an updated
subdivision plan that creates updated parcels and roads, generally
as defined in the East Fraserlands Design Guidelines document
and provides for delivery to the City, revised roads (which includes
the waterfront walkway/bikeway) and lands for parks and open
space.
Note to Applicant: Revisions to the subdivision plan and parcel
locations must comply with Section 75 of the Land Title Act
[RSBC 1996] with respect to access to water provisions. Further
design development will be needed if waterfront tenure cannot be
achieved.
Note to Applicant: Update existing legal agreements as required
to append the updated subdivision plan and reflect any
consequential amendments.
Amended Services Agreement
2. Revisions to the Services Agreements to account for impacts from
the density re-allocation and revision to the subdivision plan, that

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 10
detail the delivery of all on-site and off-site works and services
necessary or incidental to the servicing of the subject site
(collectively called the “Services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City, and that all
necessary street dedications and rights-of-way for the Services
are provided. The Services Agreements shall be revised to
include:
(i) Revision of Road B to 20.0 m (65.6 m);
(ii) Revision of Mews G to be defined as Road G and width
23.0 m (75.5 ft.);
(iii) Provision of statutory right of way on each side of High
Street to achieve 23.0 m (75.5 ft.) width; and
(iv) Amend item (e): “the provision of a floating dock attached
to the pier structure at the Waterfront Plaza, generally as
shown in the East Fraserlands Design Guidelines subject
to the execution of a maintenance agreement for the dock”
to reflect the updated Area 1 Waterfront shoreline, parcel
and plaza design (see condition 3).
Amended Shoreline Works Agreement
3. Revisions to the Shoreline Works Agreement to incorporate
changes to the subdivision plan. Shoreline Works are to include
structures, including a flood wall, if necessary in Area 1 Central
Waterfront, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
Provision of Statutory Rights-of-Ways (SRWs), minimum 7.5 m
(24.6 ft.) clear width measured from the toe of the shoreline works
or floodwall, in favour of City Engineer for shoreline works,
maintenance and installation. Structures will be maintained by City
Engineer; walkways will be maintained by the applicable owner
under public access SRWs, where applicable.
Foreshore Tenure
4. Make arrangements to convey to the City such propriety rights in
lands to be used for public open spaces, parks, roads,
walkways/bikeways and the community centre as considered
appropriate by the City Manager.
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services in
consultation with the Park Board to enter into a no development
covenant on Parcels 32.1, 32.2, 35 and 36 until such time as the
City or Wesgroup Properties can secure tenure of the portion of
park in the Provincial foreshore lease, at no cost to the City. The

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 11
City and Wesgroup agree to collaboratively explore the benefits of
a direct lease between the City and the Province for the foreshore
park. However, the City acknowledges that this may not be
achievable. Further, if tenure cannot be achieved by either party,
an alternate parcel configuration may need to be considered to
accommodate a continuous waterfront walkway/bikeway outside
of the leasehold area.
6. Revision of statutory right-of-way agreements for public access to
reflect:
(i) Continuous waterfront bike and pedestrians connection,
paths to be at least 4.0 m (13.1 ft.) wide each, plus
additional width for separation and clearances.
Note to Applicant: the intent is for this walkway and
bikeway to be primarily on public land; there may be
constrained locations which require SRWs on private
lands.
(ii) Changes to parcel forms of development and
passageways traversing parcels, as required, to meet the
intent of the adopted design guidelines.
Conveyance of Closed Roads
7. Make arrangements to transfer ownership of lands as necessary
to support the proposed draft subdivision plan, accompanying
these CD-1 and ODP amendments.
Note to Applicant: The closure of North Arm Avenue between
River District Crossing and Road A is proposed to expand
waterfront plaza, it is anticipated that modifications to the
subdivision plan will result in a net increase in lands dedicated to
the City.
8. Provision of Statutory Rights of Way (SRW) in favour of City
Engineer, at least 10m in width, center over the existing storm
main in the Road B street end, south of North Arm Ave, for utility
and public access purposes.
Updated Parks Agreements
9. Revisions to the Parks Agreements to account for impacts from
the density re-allocation and revisions to the subdivision plan that
detail provision of space in Area 1, as required by the East Fraser
Lands Official Development Plan, including sections 3.5.7 and
6.1.1.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 12
Note to Applicant: Required park space is to be calculated as
outlined in section 3.5.7 of the East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan.
(ii) Amend CD-1 (499) By-law No. 10195 for East Fraser Lands Area 2
South, to increase the maximum floor area from 106,743 sq. m
(1,148,963 sq. ft.) to 115,787 sq. m (1,246,311 sq. ft.) and to make
housekeeping amendments generally as presented in Appendix D of the
above-noted report, subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT FOR CD-1 (499)
(a) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
In addition to the design development conditions approved by Council for
the East Fraser Lands – Area 2 and Kerr Street Properties rezoning, as
recorded in the Regular Council Minutes, Thursday, January 21, 2010,
the Director of Planning or the Development Permit Board shall consider
the following conditions:
1. Submission of revised Design Guidelines for the parcels that are
modified under this text amendment (i.e. Parcels 11, 13, 24, 25
and 28 in Area 2), to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning.
Note to Applicant: The draft design guidelines in Appendix E of the
above-noted report, require further staff review, and will be subject
to further revision and refinement;
2. Design development to improve the interface to mitigate the
impact of above-grade parkades on the street elevation and
improve the interface of private development with the public realm.
Note to Applicant: In cases where parkades must protrude above
grade, increased setbacks to accommodate enhanced
landscaping, breaks or terracing in the massing, stair access
and/or views to internal courtyards, enhanced cladding treatments
of exposed parkade walls, and other design treatments are
recommended to achieve visual porosity and animation in the
pedestrian realm.
Parcel 11
3. Design development to relocate taller massing to the northwest
corner of the site, to minimize shadowing on public parks and on
site open spaces.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 13
Note to Applicant: Shadows on the Kinross Park and the playfield
Park must not exceed those in the original rezoning.
4. Design development to shape the building massing, to create a
strong, articulated edge to the Neighbourhood Park, and to terrace
down to a lower building (not exceeding four storeys) at the
waterfront.
Parcels 24, 25, 28
5. Design development to limit tower floorplate, above 22.9 m (75 ft.)
in height, to 605 sq. m (6,500 sq. ft.), measured to the far extent of
the building massing including inset or enclosed balconies, but
excluding projecting balconies.
6. Design development to locate and shape taller building forms to
mitigate shadowing on Playfield Park.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT FOR CD-1 (499)
(b) That, prior to enactment of the by-law amending CD-1 (499), the
registered owner shall on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director
of Legal Services and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering Services, and
Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
1. Obtain approval of and deposit for registration of an updated
subdivision plan that creates updated parcels and roads, generally
as defined in the East Fraserlands Design Guidelines document
and provides for delivery to the City, revised roads and lands for
parks and open space, if any changes are proposed in Area 2.
Note to Applicant: Revisions to the subdivision plan and parcel
locations must comply with Section 75 of the Land Title Act [RSBC
1996] with respect to access to water provisions.
Note to Applicant: Update existing legal agreements as required
to append the updated subdivision plan and reflect any
consequential amendments.
(iii) Amend CD-1 (566) By-law No. 10941 for East Fraser Lands Town Square
Precinct, to add 1,770 sq. m (19,052 sq. ft.) of Affordable Housing on
Parcel 13, to increase the height from 20 storeys to 25 storeys, and to
make housekeeping amendments generally as presented in Appendix F
of the above-noted report;
(iv) Amend CD-1 (498) By-law No. 10194 for East Fraser Lands Area 2 North,
to add 3,359 sq. m (36,156 sq. ft.) of Affordable Housing on Parcel 1, and

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 14
to make housekeeping amendments generally as presented in
Appendix G of the above-noted report;
(v) Amend CD-1 (565) By-law No 10942 for East Fraser Lands Park Precinct
to make housekeeping amendments generally as presented in
Appendix H of the above-noted report; and
(vi) Amend Schedule C, Streets Requiring Landscaped Setbacks, to remove
the requirement for landscaped setbacks on sections of Boundary Road,
Kerr Street, and Kinross Street, generally as presented in Appendix I of
the above-noted report.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the amendments to the respective CD-1 By-laws,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward the following for Council adoption:
(i) Updates to the Area 2 and Kerr Street Properties Design Guidelines,
generally as presented in Appendix J of the Policy Report dated
July 10, 2018, entitled “East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan
10-year Review Planning Program: Progress Update and By-law
Amendments for a New Community Centre Site and Affordable Housing”;
and
(ii) Updates to the Phase 1 Design Guidelines, generally as presented in
Appendix K of the above-noted report.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03330)
(Councillor Jang absent on Medical Leave for this item on September 18, 2018)

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 15
4. REZONING: 1444 Alberni Street and 740 Nicola Street
An application by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership in partnership with Robert A.M. Stern
Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1444 Alberni Street and 740 Nicola Street from DD (Downtown
District) to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the
development of two residential towers containing 314 market strata units,
129 market rental units and a 56-space childcare centre. A maximum height of
135.2 metres (443.5 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 14.48 are
proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since being referred to public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 6 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 8 pieces of correspondence in opposition of the application;
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other aspects of the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a brief presentation on the application
and responded to questions.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Stephen Regan
David Hutniak
Ron Johnson
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Hans Haebler
John Yano
Virginia Richards
Ann Robson

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 16
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 5:08 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing remarks and responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application, by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership in partnership with
Robert A.M. Stern Architects, on behalf of Alberni Street Nominee Ltd., the
registered property owner, to rezone 1444 Alberni Street and 711 Broughton
Street [PID 007-561-938; Lot I (Explanatory Plan 10081) Block 43 District Lot 185
Plan 92] and 740 Nicola Street [PID 009-175-105; Lot 16 Block 43 District Lot
185 Plan 92], from DD (Downtown District) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District to increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 6.00
to 14.48 and the building height from 91.4 m to 135.2 m to permit the
development of two residential towers containing 314 market strata units,
129 market rental units and a 56-space childcare centre, generally as presented
in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1444 Alberni Street and 740 Nicola Street”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership
and received September 1, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning
may allow minor alterations to this form of development when approving
the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to the overall proportions of both tower forms
to minimize their apparent bulkiness, particularly in the east-west
dimension.
Notes to Applicant: Design development is needed for the towers
to appear more slender. This can be achieved by: sculpting the
facades to enhance overall verticality; increasing the depths of the
step-backs in massing; and lowering the shoulders of the tower

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 17
base to better emphasize the shaft. Maintain a minimum of 24 m
(80 ft.) separation between tower faces.
The average floor plates of the proposal are 615 sq. m
(6,623 sq. ft.) for the east tower and 617 sq. m (6,643 sq. ft.) for
the west tower, while the maximum tower floor plate under the
West End Community Plan is 603.9 sq. m (6,500 sq. ft.). The
increase in floor plate sizes is to account for the Passive House
ventilation system and extra wall thickness. Should the ventilation
and extra wall thickness no longer be required, the maximum floor
plate of 603.9 sq. m (6,500 sq. ft.) outlined under the Plan shall be
adhered to.
2. Design development to the upper portion of the towers to further
refine and enhance their architectural contribution to the city
skyline and the public view cone.
Note to Applicant: Further sculpting of the tower crowns by
lowering the shoulders of the shaft will enhance the tower tops as
distinct elements.
3. Design development to rework the massing of the east face of the
building to provide a sense of depth and variation and to provide
massing relief to the Broughton Street frontage.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to reduce the massing impact of
the uninterrupted shear face of the east façade. This can be
achieved by stepping the east face of the tower back from the east
face of the podium, and by finessing the proportions and depths of
step-backs to integrate the tower into the podium, rather than
producing an abrupt horizontal seam between tower and podium.
4. Design development to the south face of the residential podium to
improve the livability of south-facing rental units and to enhance
the rear elevation of the podium.
Note to Applicant: Improve the sense of privacy for street-level
units facing onto the lane with increased setbacks and
landscaping, and by raising the interior floor level relative to the
grade of the lane. Balconies of upper-level podium units should be
increased for usability. Reduce the apparent bulk of the rear
elevation by increasing setbacks and stepping in the massing.
5. Design development to enhance the laneway interface at grade
level as much as possible.
Note to Applicant: Consider pedestrian lighting, landscaping,
seating, and other public realm improvements such as high quality
paving treatments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 18
6. Design development to consolidate the amenity spaces and
ensure that indoor amenity spaces are co-located with sufficiently
sized and well-proportioned outdoor amenity spaces.
Note to Applicant: Reduce the number of amenity spaces to
improve their scale, configuration, and usability. Consider shared
amenity spaces for the entire development.
7. Design development to maintain the high quality materials, and to
maintain the level of detailing implied and necessary to accomplish
and construct the proposed design aesthetic. (This includes
Haddington stone, granite accents, the bronze entry doors, metal
railings, and sculpted stone panel detailing.)
8. Design development to ensure service equipment including
window washing infrastructure, and cell tower and antennae
elements do not protrude into the public view cone(s).
9. Design development to the entries of street-level units facing onto
Alberni Street to better address the public realm.
Note to Applicant: Entrances should be enhanced through the use
of elements such as low walls, steps, special paving, special
planting features, architecturally integrated canopies projecting
from the building and special lighting. Entry steps should be
simplified as shorter straight runs perpendicular to the street.
Reduce the differential between the height of entry level and
adjacent sidewalk elevation as much as possible. No unit entry
should be greater than 0.6 m (2 ft.) below the grade of the adjacent
sidewalk.
10. Design development to provide direct circulation to edible
landscaping without conflicting with other uses such as the child
day care facility.
11. Submission of a bird friendly strategy for the design of the building
and landscape is encouraged with the development permit
application.
Note to Applicant: The strategy should identify any particular risks
with regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose
design features or to reduce these risks. For more information, see
the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Landscape
12. Design development to increase the long-term suitability of the
proposed at-grade landscape by lowering and/or sloping the
underground parking structure as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 19
(i) Provide a minimum 0.9 m (3 ft.) depth of growing medium
for all landscape along the ground level. This growing
medium should be uninterrupted from underground utilities,
walls, structures, drainage layer, etc. Raised Planters
cannot be accepted within the central courtyard.
(ii) The portions of the underground parking garage that are
underneath landscaped areas should be designed and
constructed to have a high level of structural integrity to
accommodate trees for their entire lifespan without
cracking or needing replacing.
13. Design development to provide a central courtyard that is more
representative of the West End’s character by providing:
(i) a minimum of five ‘Part 1’ additional trees from Schedule D
of the Protection of Trees By-law; and
(ii) a diverse mix of medium to large statured evergreen and
deciduous shrubs.
Note to Applicant: The West End is known for having green, leafy
and inviting streetscapes which are composed of large, statured
trees planted amongst a range of shrubs in an informal fashion. A
proposal that has low plantings arranged in a formal manner,
segregated from the public realm with walls and fences, cannot be
supported. Features such as the walls and wrought iron fences
should be designed to be less formal or be deleted.
14. Design development to improve the expression of the townhomes
along Alberni Street by, as much as possible, limiting the stairs
needed to enter each unit.
Note to Applicant: Explore using grade alterations within the
interior of the building to limit the amount of stairs needed outside
the building.
15. Design development to provide substantial planting along the
perimeter of the 7th floor mezzanine.
Note to Applicant: Provide evergreen arching shrubs or trees
along the north and south perimeters of the 7th floor mezzanine.
To ensure long-term vitality of the landscape screen, the size of
the planters will need to be expanded in order to meet or exceed
BCSLA standards.
16. Design development to provide substantial planted landscaping
along the Broughton Street streetscape in order to soften the
massing of the building.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 20
Note to Applicant: Consider small, statured trees between
windows which will allow natural light into units yet prevent direct
views from the sidewalk into the units.
17. Design development to increase the planted landscaping along
the lane with small statured trees, shrubs and planted laneway
bulges.
Note to Applicant: Explore having a landscape feature between
the ‘Class B’ Loading Bay and the opening for the underground
parking garage.
18. Design development to coordinate with staff from the Vancouver
Parks and Recreation regarding what should be shown on the
proposed plans within the minimum 6.1 m (20 ft.) dirt site to be
transferred to the City, adjacent to Nicola Street.
Note to Applicant: Staff require that this site left blank on the plans
as it is part of the future park proposed within the Nicola Street
right of way.
19. Design development to delete water features.
Note to Applicant: Water features should be replaced with
landscaping.
20. Design development to provide cross-section details of all
landscape planters.
Note to Applicant: Planted areas at grade should show the
specified growing medium of the planters as required in previous
conditions. All other planted areas should meet or exceed BCSLA
standards.
Engineering
21. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
there is a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
22. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 21
23. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
24. Delete what appear to be curb returns in the lane. There is
existing roll-over curb that runs the length of the lane which is to
be maintained.
25. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
26. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to Engineering Services
for review.
27. Delete the portions of balconies and projecting window surround
which encroach into the lane (pages A102-105).
28. Deletion of balcony encroachments into the 20-foot setback.
29. Deletion of the existing planters on Nicola Street that are being
considered for retention within the 20-foot setback area.
30. Deletion of the bike racks proposed to be located within the
setbacks on Alberni Street and Nicola Street.
31. Deletion of landscape proposed within the 20-foot setback area on
Nicola Street.
32. Deletion of the sidewalks and specialty treatments in the lane.
Provision of standard treatment in the lane.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 22
33. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Confirmation that a waste
hauler can access and pick up from the locations shown is
required. Pick-up operations should not require the use of public
property for storage, pick up or return of bins to the storage
location. Applicant is showing garbage/recycling rooms on L1 and
L2.
34. Provide automatic door openers at all doors leading to and
providing access to the bicycle room(s).
35. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services,
as follows:
Tech Table
(i) Note to Applicant: Calculations for required daycare
spaces should reference the City’s Childcare Design
Guidelines, Section 4.1.6:
http://vancouver.ca/docs/planning/childcare-design-
guideline-1993-February-4.pdf
Drawings
(ii) Provision of a section drawing showing parking level
elevations, vertical clearances, security gates including
mechanical projections for the main ramp, and through the
loading bays.
Note to Applicant: This is to confirm vertical clearances for
same. Minimum 2.3 m clearance is required to access
Class A loading and disability spaces; minimum 3.8 m
clearance is required to access Class B loading spaces.
(iii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bays, and
at all entrances. Include width of the main ramp and
distance between all breakpoints.
Note to Applicant: This is to calculate and confirm slopes
and crossfalls throughout the parking areas.
Parking Ramps
(iv) Clarify use of small ramp west adjacent to parkade access
ramp. Include dimensions and ramp slopes.
Note to Applicant: Where there is a curved ramp, provide
grades two feet from the wall on the inside radius. The

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 23
slope and length of the ramp sections must be shown on
the submitted drawings.
(v) Provide corner cuts at right-angle turns for improved
two-way vehicle visibility and maneuvering.
Note to Applicant: Corner cuts in the southeast corner of
P1 through P3 would be acceptable.
Parking Spaces
(vi) All types of parking and loading spaces to be numbered,
dimensioned and labelled on the drawings as daycare or
residential spaces.
(vii) Provide a 6.6 m (21.7 ft.) maneuvering aisle width or
provide 2.74 m (9 ft.) stall widths.
(viii) Dimension all columns encroaching into parking stalls.
(ix) Improved wheelchair access from disability parking spaces
to the elevators is required.
Note to Applicant: Note space 81 on P2 through P4, and
space 83 on P5.
Loading Bays
(x) Provision of 0.30 m (1 ft.) additional width for the Class A
loading spaces adjacent to wall.
(xi) Provide convenient, internal, stair-free access to/from all
site uses and towers.
Bicycle Room, Bike Racks, and Bikeways
(xii) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp or elevator, if required.
(xiii) Include Class B bicycle parking on architectural drawings,
in addition to those shown on landscape plans.
Sustainability
36. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 24
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of Sustainability),
or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low
Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf .
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate that
the development is on track to achieve the above requirements at
each stage of permit. For phased developments, it is expected that
the individual development permits will meet the requirements of the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings in effect at the time of
development permit application. For more detail on the above
requirements and what must be submitted at each stage, refer to
the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings –
Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017 or later).
37. The applicant commits the proposed development to exceed the
sustainable design and emissions improvements required by the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings and the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, and to demonstrate leadership in
sustainable design as required by the General Policy for Higher
Buildings, through the following:
(i) Passive House Design: the development shall be designed
to certify under the Passive House standard, including a
thermal energy demand of no more than 15 kWh/sq. m
annually.
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
38. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings. Consultation
with the social housing operators and Park Board staff with
experience of the more specific CPTED risks in this area is
recommended, and should be included the response to this
condition.
Housing/Tenant Relocation
39. Provide a completed Tenant Relocation Application Form which
includes a list outlining the name of each tenant, the number of

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 25
the tenant’s unit, the size of unit, the type of unit, and their rent, as
per Section 6.1(a) of the Tenant Relocation and Protection
Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted at
the time of development permit application.
40. Provide a letter stating the property address and legal description
of the site, and providing the names and mailing addresses of all
tenants.
41. Provide a notarized declaration, prior to issuance of a
development permit which demonstrates that each tenant has
been given written notice of the intent to redevelop the property;
that indicates the number of units occupied on the date of the
notice; includes information on posting of notice regarding the
intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and includes copies of a
letter addressed to each tenant summarizing the Tenant
Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each tenant.
42. Provide a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior to
issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the names of
tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for alternate
accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value given to
each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other compensation); and
includes a summary of all communication provided to the tenants.
43. Provide residential amenity spaces as follows:
(i) Indoor Amenity – Design development to include a
common indoor amenity room for residents with
kitchenette, storage closet and accessible washroom
equipped with baby change table adjacent to an outdoor
amenity area.
(ii) Outdoor Amenity – Design development to include an
outdoor common area for residents including an area
suitable for a range of opportunities for creative and
motor-skills developing play for children with a range of
ages (play equipment is neither necessary nor
encouraged, but landscape features which encourage
creative play and motor skills development such as
boulders, logs, pathways, water-play elements, sand-play,
etc. are encouraged).
Note to Applicant: The amenity spaces for the market rental and
strata housing should comply with the High Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 26
Child Day Care Facility
44. Design development to ensure that the 56-space childcare centre
is licensable by Community Care Facilities Licensing and meets
the intent of the City's Childcare Design Guidelines and Childcare
Technical Guidelines. Each program within the childcare centre is
required to have an adequate amount of contiguous indoor and
outdoor space.
Note to Applicant: Based on the City’s Childcare Design
Guidelines a 56-space childcare centre will require a minimum
gross indoor area of 7,320 sq. ft. and an approximate outdoor
area of 7,590 sq. ft.
45. Design development to ensure that the indoor and outdoor spaces
of the childcare centre are designed to maximize opportunities for
healthy child development while ensuring an operationally
sustainable facility for the non-profit operator.
46. Design development of the outdoor childcare space to maximize
solar access and to ensure that the full outdoor area is
supervisable and licensable. Storage must be accommodated on
site for program equipment and strollers (for both parents’ use and
for the program’s use).
Note to Applicant: All work pertaining to the design, construction,
fit, furnish, equip and supply for the childcare centre shall be to the
satisfaction of the City's Managing Director of Social Policy and
Projects, the City's Director of Facilities Planning and
Development, and to the Regional Manager of Community Care
Facilities Licensing.
47. Design development to minimize the number of balconies
overhanging the outdoor play space and to ensure mitigation of
fallen or thrown objects from any remaining overhanging
balconies.
48. Clarify the intended use of daycare garbage spaces on L01 and
L03.
Note to Applicant: Note that daycare garbage room should be
large enough to accommodate garbage and recycling for the
childcare, and should be located in an area easily accessible by
daycare staff (close to the daycare elevator).
49. Provide seven pick-up/drop-off parking spaces, and two staff
parking spaces, dedicated and signed to the childcare.
50. Clarify that the childcare is situated no higher than 24.4 m (80 ft.)
via evacuation routes.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 27
51. Provide plans outlining how access to and use of the residential
outdoor amenity spaces will be entirely separate from access to
the daycare and that there would be minimal impact on the safety,
security and daily operations of the daycare.
Note to Applicant: Staff are concerned that the close proximity of
the outdoor amenity space will impact either the privacy of the
childcare activities, and/or the access to natural light should a
privacy barrier be erected. If there is access to the daycare level
by residents, additional security measures will be required.
Note to Applicant: A provincially licensed childcare facility must be
secured at all times, with access granted only to staff, children
enrolled in the childcare, and their caregivers at pick-up/drop-off.
Public Park
52. Delete any features on the plans shown within the future park,
including within the dedicated land along the western edge of the
subject site offered by the applicant.
Note to Applicant: The design, construction and programming of
the future park, including on the dedicated land, are to be
determined through a separate, Park Board led process. The Park
Board led process will confirm the amenities to be included in the
park including on the dedicated land. Elements such as bike
racks, landscaping, trees, planters or structures related to private
development, as well as potential public art, as shown in the
rezoning application, are not supported in the 6.1 m (20 ft.)
dedicated land.
Further, site grading of the park, including the dedicated area, will
be determined by the Park Board during the design of the park in
order to best accommodate the park design and proposed park
programming. The proposed westerly building elevation cannot
limit any future possibility for park grades. A consistent, even
grade from lane to the street must remain possible. Final grading,
which may include a series of terraces, would be further explored
and determined through the future park design process.
53. Delete any sidewalk or pathway locations through the future park.
Note to Applicant: Sidewalk and pathway locations through the
future park will be determined by the General Manager of Parks
and Recreation and the General Manager of Engineering
Services, and cannot be as shown in the development permit
application without consultation with staff.
54. Design development to ensure that, other than subsurface
drainage associated with the building, no subsurface building

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 28
structure or infrastructure shall be located within the park or the
dedicated area.
55. Design development to ensure no building encumbrances or
encroachment to the air space above the park including the
dedicated area, e.g. no overhanging structures/balconies/window
bays within the dedicated area.
Note to Applicant: Any building encroachment into the 6.1 m
(20 ft.) park dedication area is not permitted. The intent of this
space is for park use. If additional space is required to
accommodate the building façade, including balconies, water
tables, or cornice projections, all these features must be
accommodated within the rezoning site, not within the 6.1 m
(20 ft.) park dedication that is to be transferred to the City.
56. Design development to ensure no direct building access into the
dedicated area.
Note to Applicant: A collector pathway would be required within
private property.
57. Ensure Park Board arborist approval is obtained for the tree
protection plan for all trees within the park and street trees. Plans
to be submitted for Park Board approval.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to
the General Manager of Planning and Development, the Managing
Director of Social Development, the General Manager of Engineering
Services, the Managing Director of Cultural Services, the Director of
Facility Design and Management and Approving Officer, as necessary,
and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Subdivision of Lot I (Explanatory Plan 10081) and Lot 16,
Block 43, District Lot 185, Plan 92 to create a single parcel for the
development site and a new 20 foot wide park parcel adjacent to
Nicola Street. The new park parcel is to be transferred
(“dedicated”) to the City for park purposes.
Note to Applicant: This 20-foot wide park site is to be transferred
to City in Fee Simple Ownership and shall:
(i) be a dirt site (no parking structure or other
infrastructure underneath);

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 29
(ii) be transferred to City ownership, free and clear of
any financial charges, liens and other
encumbrances; and
(iii) meet all environmental conditions/remediation
requirements for park use (verified by appropriate
written documentation/certification).
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreements 469603M
(support), E36923 & 440228M (commercial crossings) prior to
building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of statutory right of way (SRW) for public pedestrian use
of an expanded sidewalk over the area of the site adjacent to the
north property line to give an overall distance of 4.5 m (14.8 ft.)
from the existing back of curb. The SRW is to be free of any
encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door-swings and benches
at-grade, but the SRW agreement will accommodate underground
parking Levels P1 to P6 and portions of building levels 1 and 2
within the SRW area.
4. Provision of a shared use agreement to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services for the loading spaces
between the daycare and residential uses.
Note to Applicant: The shared use agreement should specify
allocated time periods for shared use by residential vs. daycare
units. Label the space as “Residential and Daycare Loading”.
5. Provision of additional transportation demand management
strategies in Green Mobility Plan, including:
(i) Provision of additional residential Class A bicycle spaces,
for a minimum total of 1.8 spaces per unit;
(ii) Provision of Class A and Class B bicycle spaces for the
daycare; and
(iii) Provision of 100% EV-ready vehicle parking spaces.
Note to Applicant: Additional information regarding the proposed
private shared bicycle fleet must be provided to determine its
suitability in meeting the requirements of the Green Mobility Plan.
Contact John Turecki in Engineering Services for further
information.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 30
6. Provision of a letter of commitment to post occupancy monitoring
of the Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures
proposed. Including provision of a limited TDM plan update to be
delivered approximately 1 year after occupancy outlining the
following:
(i) Travel mode survey for the all employees;
(ii) Current and future TDM measures being implemented and
the uptake; and
(iii) Each update to capture summer and winter data for the
mode split and TDM uptake.
Note to Applicant: A $10,000 Letter of Credit will be required to
secure the studies. Completed studies are to be submitted to the
Parking Management Branch of the City.
7. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Upgrade the existing 150 mm sanitary sewer along Alberni
Street, from the development to Nicola Street
(approximately 54 m). The estimated size of the upgraded
sanitary sewer is 250 mm.
(iii) RAINWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN – Provision of a
comprehensive site-wide Rainwater Management Plan
(RMP) prepared by a subject matter expert (Engineer), that
demonstrates how the project will meet the requirements
for peak flow control, volume retention, and treatment, and
which will address the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 31
a. Peak Flow Rate Control:
1. The peak flow rate from the 2-year
post-development storm event shall be
maintained at the pre-development level.
2. The pre-development estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the
post-development estimate shall utilize the
2100 IDF curve to account for climate
change.
b. Treatment and Volume Retention:
1. Runoff from the first 24 mm of rainfall from
all areas, including rooftops, paved areas,
and landscape must be retained and treated
on site (landscapes over native subsoils
with appropriately sized topsoil meets the
24 mm retention requirement);
2. Surfaces designed for motor vehicle use
and other high pollutant generating surfaces
require an additional 24 mm of treatment
beyond the first 24 mm retained (for a total
of 48 mm treated).
3. Water quality volume (24 mm for low
pollutant generating surfaces like roofs and
48 mm for high pollutant generating
surfaces like driveways) that leaves the site
must be treated to a standard of 80% TSS
removal by mass by using either individual
BMPs that meet the standard or treatment
trains of BMPs that, when combined, meet
the standard. For proprietary treatment
devices:
(i) Provide product information for all
treatment practices.
(ii) Products need to be certified by
TAPE - The Technology
Assessment Protocol – Ecology
Program, Washington State
Department of Ecology’s process for
evaluating and approving emerging
rainwater treatment BMPs. The
applicant may propose other
technologies but must provide

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 32
supporting information that shows
the technology meets the standard.
4. The applicant must prioritize methods of retention
according to the three tiers below. Justification
must be provided for using a lower tier retention
option. The tiers are as follows:
(i) 1st tier priority green infrastructure
practices: Provide volume reducing green
infrastructure practices. For example,
rainwater can be kept on site for rainwater
harvesting for re-use, green roofs, and soil
infiltration;
(ii) 2nd tier priority green infrastructure
practices: Provide treatment and retention in
non-infiltrating landscapes. For example,
rainwater can be directed to absorbent
landscape on slab, closed bottom planter
boxes, and lined bioretention systems;
(iii) 3rd tier priority green infrastructure
practices: Provide treatment and detention
as per the rate control requirement.
c. Submission requirements for development permit
stage must include the following elements:
1. Pre-development site plan showing
orthophoto and existing drainage areas and
appurtenances.
2. A proposed site plan that delineates
drainage areas, including the area
measurements for pervious/impervious
areas, and identifies appropriately sized
green infrastructure practices for each of
those areas.
3. Hydrologic and hydraulic analysis prepared
by a qualified professional in the area of
rainwater management showing how the
site will meet the requirements.
4. If lower tier green infrastructure options are
chosen, then justifications must be included
in the RMP report.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 33
5. Details on how the targets set out above will
be achieved through the development
phases and once all development phases
are complete.
6. Include supplementary documentation for
any proprietary products that clearly
demonstrates how they contribute to the
targets.
7. The plan and report must demonstrate that
access has been provided for maintaining
the rainwater management system, such as
providing truck access for pumping out
sediment traps.
8. Maintenance and operation guide for the
rainwater management system that will be
provided to the eventual owner or party
responsible for maintenance.
Note to Applicant: On-site drainage is required to
be treated on site; it cannot be treated on public
property (i.e. on the future park site).
Note to Applicant: The Development to be serviced
to the upgraded 250 mm sanitary sewer along
Alberni Street.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be
required to ensure ongoing operations of certain
stormwater storage, rainwater management and
green infrastructure systems.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work. Note:
as-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the
installed number of conduits, their final locations and
depths.
(v) Provision of a new 1.524 m (5 ft.) sod lawn front boulevard
and light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalks between

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 34
the front boulevard and the property line along the Alberni
Street frontage of the site.
(vi) Provision of a new 1.524 m (5 ft.) sod lawn front boulevard
and Triangle West sidewalk treatment between the front
boulevard and the property line along the Broughton Street
frontage of the site.
(vii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(viii) Removal of the existing driveway crossings and provision
of new curb and gutter and sidewalks on Alberni Street
adjacent the site.
(ix) Deletion of the existing planters on Nicola Street that are
being considered for retention within the 20-foot setback
area.
(x) Provision of street to park design and re-construction on
Nicola Street adjacent to the site or cash payment for
street to park improvements within the Triangle West area
including design. Improvements will generally include all
park improvements within the existing street right-of-way
and 20-foot setback area, walking and cycling facilities,
provisions for emergency access and improved street and
pedestrian LED lighting including a lighting analysis and
design, and adjustment to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed improvements.
(xi) Provision of a new full traffic signal at Alberni and
Broughton streets.
(xii) Provision of $400,000 for changes to existing signals due
to future Nicola Park.
8. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 35
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Childcare
9. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services, in consultation with the Director of Real Estate,
Managing Director of Social Policy and Projects and Director of
Facility Planning and Development, for the turn-key delivery of an
air space parcel with improvements on one level for the 56-space
childcare facility, an adjacent outdoor space of contiguous
dedicated childcare outdoor area as part of the development at
this site, subject to the following provisions:
(i) The facility is to meet the City’s Childcare specifications,
and comprises of a minimum of 8,778 sq. ft. interior space
and a minimum of 7,590 sq. ft. of exterior space, located
on the 7th floor of the development, fully fit-out and
finished, equipped (FF&E), including storage and any
additional amenity spaces and along with dedicated
parking stalls required under the Parking By-law.
Note to Applicant: For information, FF&E is estimated at
$2,500 per childcare space. At 56 spaces, the total cost
would be approximately $140,000.
(ii) All within a fee-simple Airspace Parcel (with shared
systems maintained by the market residential airspace
parcel strata or commercial airspace parcel strata/owner
(as applicable), with fair and equitable sharing of costs
related thereto), transferred to City ownership (free and
clear of any financial charges, liens and other
encumbrances);
(iii) Delivery Date: by Q1 2024 (with the goal to deliver as soon
as possible, but under no circumstances later than end of
Q4 2024);
(iv) The delivery of the facility is to be secured by a Letter of
Credit (LC), provided to the City prior to building permit
issuance, the amount of which will be settled as part of the
rezoning enactment documents; all LC’s must be in
compliance with and in the form set out in the City’s Letter

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 36
of Credit Policy AF-002-02:
https://policy.vancouver.ca/AF00202.pdf
(v) The facility is to achieve Passive House Certification,
consistent with the rest of the development; and
(vi) To the extent possible, the facility to be built with separate
dedicated building systems so that its operating costs are
accounted for and managed separately from the balance
of the development.
10. Prior to enactment, the City to provide a $2,950,000 cash
contribution towards the facility.
11. Total CAC Credit for this facility is $7,050,000 based on a
valuation of $10,000,000 offset by the $2,950,000 City
contribution.
Housing
12. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement securing 129 rental
housing residential units, as market rental housing, for the longer
of 60 years and the life of the building, subject to the following
additional conditions:
(i) a no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) a no stratification covenant;
(iii) that none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) that a minimum of 13 units (10%) at approx. 7,704 sq. ft. of
rentable floor area as secured market rental housing, plus
related parking at moderate income rates as set out in the
Moderate Income Rental Housing Pilot Program. See
Figure 1 in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1444 Alberni Street
and 740 Nicola Street”, for the general location of these
units.
a. The average starting monthly rents of the units
secured at moderate income rates for the longer of
60 years and life of the building, will be at or below
the following rates, applicable at the time of initial
occupancy:
• Five (5) studio units - $950 per month

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 37
• Five (5) one bedroom units - $1,200 per month
• Three (3) two bedroom units - $1,600 per month
as set out in section 2a of the “Moderate Income
Rental Housing Pilot Program: Application Process,
Project Requirements And Available Incentives:
Admin Bulletin” and rent increases will be capped at
the Residential Tenancy Act maximum annual
allowable increase, as published by the Province of
British Columbia, regardless of a change in
occupancy.
Note to Applicant: A rent roll indicating the agreed
maximum average initial monthly rents for the units
secured at moderate income rates will be required
prior to Development Permit issuance, and again
prior to issuance of an Occupancy Permit, to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services (or successor in function)
and the Director of Legal Services.
b. The applicant will verify eligibility of new tenants for
the units secured at moderate income rates:
1. For new tenants, annual household income
cannot exceed 4 times the annual rent for
the unit (i.e. at least 25% of household
income is spent on rent).
2. There should be at least one occupant per
bedroom in the unit.
c. The applicant will verify the ongoing eligibility of
existing tenants in the units secured at moderate
income rates every 5 years after initial occupancy:
1. For such tenants, annual household income
cannot exceed 5 times the annual rent for
the unit (i.e. at least 20% of income is spent
on rent).
2. There should be at least one occupant per
bedroom in the unit.
d. On an annual basis, or at the request of the City,
the applicant will report to the City of Vancouver on
the operation of the Moderate Income Rental
Housing Units which will ensure that the City can
confirm that the units are being operated as agreed,
and will include a rent roll for the moderate income

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 38
units, and a summary of the results of eligibility
testing for all units.
e. Compliance with the City approved Tenant
Relocation Plan, including provision of a final
Tenant Relocation Report prior to issuance of the
occupancy permit; and
f. Such other terms and conditions as the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services
and the Director of Legal Services may in their sole
discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by
by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver
Charter.
Sustainability
13. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Community Benefit Agreement
14. Execute an Inner-City Local Employment and Procurement
Agreement between the applicant and the City identifying and
committing to targets across the life-cycle of the development
project up to and potentially including post-occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Based on consultation with industry,
community, and suppliers, the Community Benefit Agreement
policy framework brings value by allowing for flexibility in terms of
options for social hiring and social purchasing - this includes not
limiting opportunities strictly to construction phase but including
site prep, and possibly building and site services after build out is
complete (janitorial, landscaping, gift baskets for new condo
owners etc.)

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 39
Social Policy
15. In lieu of providing three food assets on site, as described in the
Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large Developments, the
following contributions to neighbourhood food assets are
suggested. The owner shall, at its sole cost and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, and the
Managing Director of Social Policy and Projects, make
arrangements for the following:
(i) A $50 gift certificate for each unit for the Vancouver
Farmers Market is to be provided for the building residents
to assist the new residents in connecting with this
important local resource.
Note to Applicant: The City of Vancouver will require a
letter of credit to ensure compliance.
(ii) A $25,000 grant to the Gordon Neighbourhood House, a
leader in sustainable food systems in the West End, to
enhance and expand their food initiatives.
Note to Applicant: The City Vancouver will require a letter
of credit to ensure compliance.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) – Cash Payments
16. Pay to the City the cash CAC of $67,982,700, to be allocated
towards the achievement of public benefits in accordance with the
West End Public Benefits Strategy.
17. Payment Terms are as follows:
(i) $22,950,000 must be paid prior to enactment of the
rezoning by-law;
(ii) $20,000,000 must be paid on the earlier of the following
dates:
a. the issuance of the first Development Permit; and
b. the date that is 12 months (measured in calendar
days) following the date of rezoning enactment,
with interest accruing at prime plus 3% (per Bank of
Montreal daily prime rates) from the date that is 12
months following the date of rezoning enactment
until the date that such amount is fully paid; and
(iii) $25,032,700 (the “Outstanding Balance”) must be paid on
the earlier of the following dates:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 40
a. the issuance of the Building Permit; and
b. the date that is 24 months (measured in calendar
days) following the date of rezoning enactment,
with interest accruing at prime plus 3% (per Bank of
Montreal daily prime rates) from the date that is 24
months following the date of rezoning enactment
until the date that such amount is fully paid.
However, if the Applicant wishes to build the project in two
phases (i.e. obtain building permits for one tower first, and
complete that tower first (with occupancy permits issued),
before obtaining building permits for the other tower), the
Outstanding Balance must be paid based on the pro rata
percentage of the proportion of area approved via Building
Permits, upon issuance of the Building Permit for each
phase of the development.
For Phase 1, the pro rata percentage of the Outstanding
Balance must be paid on the earlier of following dates:
c. at issuance of the Building Permit of Phase 1; and
d. 24 months following the date of the rezoning
enactment (measured in calendar days) following
the date of rezoning enactment, with interest
accruing at prime plus 3% (per Bank of Montreal
daily prime rates) from the date that is 24 months
following the date of rezoning enactment until the
date that such amount is fully paid.
The remaining balance of the Outstanding Balance must
be paid on the earlier of the following dates:
e. at issuance of the Building Permit for Phase 2; and
f. 48 months following the date of the rezoning
enactment (measured in calendar days) following
the date of rezoning enactment, with interest
accruing at prime plus 3% (per Bank of Montreal
daily prime rates) from the date that is 24 months
following the date of rezoning enactment until the
date that such amount is fully paid.
(iv) The deferred cash balance of $45,032,700 will be secured
via a letter of credit (LC), in the City’s standard form,
provided to the City prior to enactment of the rezoning
by-law. This letter of credit (LC) will be used to pay the
City, and will be drawn down by the City on the
aforementioned due dates. However, if the development

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 41
does not proceed to Development Permit stage or any
portion thereof does not proceed to obtain building permits,
the City will draw down the entire remaining balance of the
LC by the date (or next business day) that is 2 years after
the date of enactment of the rezoning by-law.
(v) If the Applicant should sell (in whole or in part) its interest
in the development on the Rezoning Lands or shares in
the Applicant or corporations which hold legal or beneficial
interest in the Applicant or this development, then the City
may immediately draw down the entire remaining balance
of the LC upon the closing of such sale transaction.
(vi) The deferred payment and any interest, as applicable, will
also be secured by a Development Permit hold and
Building Permit hold, which will be registered on title prior
to rezoning enactment and, if required, an additional
Occupancy Permit hold for the development, to be
released only on confirmation of receipt by the City of the
full amount of the total cash CAC Offering (plus interest, if
applicable).
18. The cash CAC payment is subject to the following conditions:
(i) The Applicant’s commitment to design and develop this
project to achieve Passive House Certification for the
entire development was fundamental in the pro forma
analysis and resolution of the community benefits offering
at this lower amount (relative to what would be expected
for a development on Alberni Street in Vancouver).
Achieving Passive House Certification for the entire
development is considered a public benefit as it helps to
achieve the City’s objectives for sustainability and meeting
the City’s goal of being the “Greenest City” in the
world. Therefore, the requirement for Passive House
Certification will be secured through rezoning conditions,
including agreements registered against title to the
Rezoning Lands. If the Applicant chooses to make
alterations to the elements of the development’s design
which result in the removal of such Passive House
premium cost items, then the City may require the
applicant/owner to pay an additional cash CAC, based on
the revised pro forma, prior to building permit issuance.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by
building permit hold and a Section 219 covenant.
(ii) The Applicant agrees to provide complete transparency to
the City with respect to all the costs for this
development. Therefore, the Applicant will fully disclose its

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 42
contracts and accounting of costs (with support
documentation) for this development to the City (and/or its
delegated staff/consultant(s)) so that the City is able to
determine the incremental cost for developing a Passive
House Project at this scale. This information is only for the
City’s knowledge to assist in costing future Passive House
Projects; the City will not seek recourse if such costs are
determined to be lower than the estimated premium costs
used in the pro forma analysis to determine the total public
benefits package noted herein.
Other Public Benefits (not included in value of CAC offering)
19. Local Buyers First – The applicant’s voluntary commitment to
support residents who live or work in Metro Vancouver by giving
them the first opportunity to purchase new pre-sale homes in the
new development on the subject site, which includes the following:
(i) For the first 30 calendar days after the launch of the
“pre-sales marketing campaign” for this development (or
each phase of the development, if applicable, the
“Exclusive Local Buyer Period”), only those who live or
work in Metro Vancouver will be eligible to purchase
homes in this development, and all such buyers will be
required by the applicant to sign a statutory declaration
attesting that they live or work in Metro Vancouver, they do
not intend to assign the Contract prior to completing the
purchase of their unit, they intend for the title to the unit to
be registered in their name in the Land Title Office upon
the completion of the purchase of their unit and they intend
to occupy the unit they are purchasing.
(ii) The text of the statutory declaration will be agreed upon in
advance of the rezoning enactment by the Applicant and
the City’s Director of Legal Services.
(iii) There shall be no foreign marketing during this Exclusive
Local Buyer Period.
(iv) No buyer shall be allowed to purchase more than one (1)
unit within this Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
Public Art
20. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 43
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager (a checklist will be
provided).
Note to Applicant: Please call Eric Fredericksen, Public Art
Program Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
21. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Protection, City Engineer and Director of
Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of
the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of
the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 44
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated July 16, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1444 Alberni Street and 740 Nicola Street”, the Director
of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement
By-law, pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter, for enactment prior
to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may
be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03332)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Carr and De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Jang absent on Medical Leave for this item on September 18, 2018)
* * * * *
At 5:46 pm on Tuesday, September 18, 2018, Council recessed and reconvened at 6:30 pm.
* * * * *
5. REZONING: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for Most RS
Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make amendments to the RS-1, RS-1A, RS-1B, RS-5 and RS-6 District
Schedules to increase housing choice in those areas by introducing Two-
Family Dwelling (duplex) use; to provide more flexibility in the regulations for
currently-permitted Two-Family Dwelling use within the RS-2 and RS-7 District
Schedules; and to introduce Two-Family Dwelling with secondary suite or

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 45
lock-off unit as permitted dwelling uses to each RS District Schedule being
amended.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had Memorandum dated September 7, 2018, from the General Manager, Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability, which summarized the changes made to the proposed by-law
and related guidelines since referral.
Specifically, changes were made to the proposed regulations since referral to:
• clarify permitted uses by replacing ‘Principal Dwelling Unit with a Lock-off Unit in a
Two-Family Dwelling’ with ‘Lock-off Unit in conjunction with a Two-Family Dwelling,
provided that there is no more than one Lock-off Unit for each dwelling unit’;
• clarify that the maximum site area for two-family dwellings includes two-family dwellings
with lock-off units; and
• decrease the maximum building depth regulation for two-family dwellings and two-family
dwellings with secondary suites from 45% to 40%, so as to better match the maximum
allowable floor space ratio for these uses and to promote consistency with other
permitted uses, including one-family dwellings.
The posted by-law and Summary and Recommendation for this item have been prepared to
reflect the changes outlined above.
In addition, amendments were made to the Principal Dwelling Unit Combined with a Lock-off
Unit Guidelines (Appendix B of the Policy Report dated June 27, 2018, entitled “Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings
(Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice”, to clarify that the guidelines apply to both Lock-off
Units and Principal Dwelling Units with a Lock-off Unit. A related change is made to the Strata
Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones, (Appendix C of the above-noted report). Consequential
amendments are required to correct references to the Principal Dwelling Unit Combined with a
Lock-off Unit Guidelines in other Council approved policies and guidelines.
“A” below has been changed from the original Summary and Recommendation to reflect the
changes noted above and the changes are reflected in bold italics.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since being referred to for public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 194 pieces of correspondence, plus one letter with 50 endorsements, in support of the
application;
• 319 pieces of correspondence in opposition of the application, plus one petition with
eleven signatures and another petition regarding character house retention;
• 3 pieces of correspondence related to other aspects of the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 46
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a brief presentation on the application
and responded to questions.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, at 10:10 pm on Tuesday, September 18, 2018, Council
recessed and reconvened on Wednesday, September 19, 2018, at 1:06 pm.
* * * * *
The following spoke in support of the application:
Scott de Lange Boom
Jennifer Maiko Bradshaw
Reilly Wood
Stuart Smith
Rachel Selinger
Brendan Dawe
Peter Waldkirch
Jens von Bergmann
Roman Lisagor
Brendan Vance
David Stroud
Michael Mortensen
Jake Fry
Ralph Segal
John Boxall
Karen Sawatzky
Javier Campos
Aaron Jasper
Owen Bradey
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Hilary Reid
David Chen
Elizabeth Murphy
Maureen Charron
Josip Dasovic
Joan Bunn

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 47
Jonathan Rubenstein
Marjorie Schurman
Breton Crellin
Dale Leibel
Debbie Gosselin
Mirza Raza
Olivia Edwards
Ronald Hatch
Dan Jekubik
Colleen Hardwick
Mary Ann Cummings
Rebecca Lockhart
Rohana Rezel
Esther Yuen
Judy Graves
John Yano
David Sexton
Joan Rush
David Gardner
Evelyn Jacobs
Richard Nantel
Robert Chester
Marty yan
Denise Allen
Sean Cassidy
Janice Colado
Lisa Christianson
Franco Peta
Larry Benge
Jeanette Jones and Carmen Paterson spoke to other aspects of the applications.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 4:32 pm on Wednesday,
September 19, 2018.
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with Item 6, entitled “REZONING:
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones
(Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones (Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase
Housing Choice”, prior to a recess and the completion of Item 5, “REZONING:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 48
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow
Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Note: For ease of reference the minutes are recorded in numerical order.
* * * * *
At 5:04 pm on Wednesday, September 19, 2018, Council recessed and reconvened on at
6:39 pm.
* * * * *
Councillor Jang advised he had reviewed the proceedings of the Public Hearing he had missed
on September 18, 2018, and would therefore be participating in discussion and decision on the
application.
Councillor Reimer advised she had reviewed the proceedings of the Public Hearing she had
missed on September 19, 2018, and would therefore be participating in discussion and decision
on the application.
* * * * *
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing remarks and responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend:
(i) the RS-1, RS-1A, RS-1B, RS-5 and RS-6 District Schedules to provide
more housing choice by introducing Two-Family Dwelling, Two-Family
Dwelling with Secondary Suite, and Lock-off Unit in conjunction with a
Two-Family Dwelling as permitted dwelling uses;
(ii) the RS-2 and RS-7 District Schedules to provide more flexibility in the
regulations for Two-Family Dwelling use and to introduce Two-Family
Dwelling with Secondary Suite, and Lock-off Unit in conjunction with a
Two-Family Dwelling as permitted dwelling uses; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 49
(iii) Section 10.21 to introduce a maximum dwelling unit size for lock-off units
to more clearly differentiate these small units from secondary suites;
all as generally set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 27, 2018, entitled
“Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow
Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice”, revised as set out in
the Memorandum dated September 7, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings
(Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice- RTS 12677” and further revised to clarify
that:
(a) the maximum site area for a two-family dwelling, including a lock-off
unit in conjunction with a two-family dwelling, is less than 511 m2 in
the RS-1, RS-1A, RS-1B RS-2, RS-5, RS-6 and RS-7 District
Schedules; and
(b) that a rear yard with a minimum depth of 40 percent of the depth of
the site shall be provided for two-family dwellings or two-family
dwellings with secondary suites in the RS-1 District Schedule.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to bring forward for Council adoption related amendments to the
Principal Dwelling Unit Combined with a Lock-off Unit Guidelines, generally in
accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated June 27, 2018, entitled
“Amendments to the Zoning and Development By law for Most RS Zones to
Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice”.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to bring forward for adoption revised Strata Title Policies for RS, RT
and RM Zones generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated June 27, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase
Housing Choice”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to bring forward for Council adoption revised RS-7 Guidelines,
generally in accordance with Appendix D of the Policy Report dated
June 27, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for
Most RS Zones to Allow Two Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing
Choice”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 50
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
carried (Vote No. 03358)
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
THAT Council refer Item 5, entitled “REZONING: Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to
Increase Housing Choice”, to be considered by the next Council after
November 5, 2018;
FURTHER THAT any recommendations that are brought back by staff include robust
consultation, including opportunities to attend open houses accessible to the public
city-wide.
not put
* * * * *
During discussion, Councillor Louie rose on a Point of Order to inquire if the Amendment was in
order. Following the advice of the City Clerk, the Mayor advised the amendment was out of
order as per Section 4.3 (c) of the Procedure By-law, as to refer the application back to staff for
further consultation would require re-submitting a new application which is out of order as it
conflicts with or presents substantially the same question as a motion still within the control of
Council because it had not been finally disposed of.
* * * * *
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer Item 5, entitled “REZONING: Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to
Increase Housing Choice”, to be considered by the next Council after
November 5, 2018.
not put
* * * * *
The Mayor advised Councillor De Genova to confirm the wording for her referral. Councillor
De Genova later choose not move her referral motion.
* * * * *

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 18 and 19, 2018 51
Following the referrals being not put, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 03358), with
Councillors Affleck, Ball, Carr and De Genova opposed)
6. REZONING: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for RT-7 and
RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones (Kensington-Cedar Cottage)
to Increase Housing Choice
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council resolves they do not have time to hear Item 6, entitled “REZONING:
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones
(Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones (Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase
Housing Choice”, and that this item be considered at another time, after November 5,
2018.
carried (Vote No. 03356)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the motion be amended by striking the words “November 5, 2018, and inserting
“January, 2019”.
LOST (Vote No. 03355)
(Councillors Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson, and Mayor Robertson
opposed)
The amendment having lost the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 03356) with Councillor
Bremner opposed.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 7:59 pm.
* * * * *