PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 5 AND 6, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, September 5, 2018, at
6:09 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the meeting recessed
and reconvened on Thursday, September 6, 2018, at 6:05 pm.
PRESENT: Acting Mayor Raymond Louie
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson (Civic Business)
Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Medical Leave)
Councillor Andrea Reimer (Leave of Absence)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Acting Mayor Louie reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Acting Mayor Louie in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to Zoning and Development, CD-1, Heritage
and Sign By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Stevenson and Acting Mayor Louie
opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: 2018 Annual Inflationary Adjustments to Density Bonus
Contributions
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to implement 2018 annual
inflationary adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions. The inflationary
adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions allow the City to keep pace with
annual changes in property values and non-residential construction costs, and
help ensure the continued delivery of necessary growth-related amenities and
infrastructure.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on the application since referral to Public Hearing and prior to
the close of the speakers list.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:13 pm on Wednesday,
September 5, 2018.
Staff Closing Comments
The Assistant Director, Community Planning Division, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, along with staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT, to implement inflationary rate adjustments to the Density Bonus Contributions
available in certain zoning districts, the application to amend Schedule F of the Zoning
and Development By-law to increase the values of the affordable housing shares and
the amenity shares effective September 30, 2018, as shown in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated July 16, 2018, entitled “2018 Annual Inflationary Adjustments to Density
Bonus Contributions”, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03289)

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 3
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: 155 East 37th Avenue (Little Mountain)
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (704) (Comprehensive Development) District at
155 East 37th Avenue (Little Mountain) to add a maximum permitted floor
area for non-residential uses in Sub area A, to exclude below-grade
residential storage from FSR calculations, to correct an inadvertent error on
the heights of buildings in sub-areas 2 and 3, and to correct the numbering of
sub-areas in Table B.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated August 22, 2018, from the Assistant Director,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, in place of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018,
entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments - Zoning and Development By-law, Various CD-1 By-laws,
and Noise Control, Parking and Sign By-laws”, related to this application, and provided an
update on the delay in bringing this application forward to the Public Hearing on July 17, 2018.
The memorandum also contained corrections to relevant sections of the above-noted Policy
Report as outlined below:
1. Recommendation A (i) referenced “sub-areas A and B”, whereas the correct
reference is “sub-areas 2 and 3”.
2. Appendix A was prepared with incorrect numbering of the sub-areas in Table B
of Section 6 of the CD-1 By-law, as it was based on an earlier version of the draft
by-law, not on the version that was approved at the Public Hearing of
July 19, 2016.
3. The draft CD-1 By-law approved at the Public Hearing of July 19, 2016, included
a provision in Section 5.2 requiring a minimum amount of non-residential floor
area in sub-area A, the southeast quadrant of the site adjacent Main Street. The
above-noted Policy Report proposed adding a further provision to Section 5.2 to
set a maximum for residential floor area in sub-area A, with the intent that this
limit on residential would indirectly limit non-residential uses. Accordingly,
Appendix A of the above-noted Policy Report indicated striking the minimum
provision for non-residential floor area in the existing CD-1 By-law and replacing
it with a maximum provision for residential floor area. It was subsequently
determined that the intent would be better met by imposing a maximum on the
non-residential floor area instead of the residential, and that the minimum for
non-residential should be retained, not replaced.
As the Summary and Recommendation, the redacted Policy Report attached to this
memorandum, and the draft by-law for this application contained the corrections above, no
further action was required by Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 4
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on the application since referral to Public Hearing and prior to
the close of the speakers list.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:20 pm on Wednesday,
September 5, 2018.
Staff Closing Comments
The Assistant Director, Community Planning Division, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council approve the application to amend CD-1 (704) By-law No. 12195 for
155 East 37th Avenue (Little Mountain) for minor text amendments to add a maximum
permitted floor area for non-residential uses in Sub-area A, to exclude below-grade
residential storage from FSR calculations, to correct an inadvertent error on the heights
of mixed-use sub-areas 2 and 3, and to correct the numbering of sub-areas in Table B,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments - Zoning and Development By-law, Various CD-1 By laws,
and Noise Control, Parking and Sign By laws”, including revisions contained in the
Memorandum dated August 22, 2018, entitled “Text Amendment: 155 East 37th Avenue
(Little Mountain) - RTS 12754”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03290)
3. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 2040 Columbia Street (Lougheed House)
An application by Sandra Moore, Birmingham & Wood Architects, was considered as follows:
Summary: To add the Lougheed Residence at 2040 Columbia Street to the Vancouver
Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category, to designate the heritage
building’s exterior as protected heritage property and to permit a 10%
increase in density of the existing I-1 District Schedule for a new seven-storey
jewelry manufacturing building.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 5
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since the application was scheduled for Public Hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:29 pm on Wednesday,
September 5, 2018.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council add the existing building at 2040 Columbia Street [PID: 007-201-
028; Lot G, Block 21, District Lot 200A, Plan 197 (the “site”)], known as the
Lougheed Residence (the “heritage building”), to the Vancouver Heritage
Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law
to designate the exterior of the heritage building as protected heritage property.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03291)

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 6
4. REZONING: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law Regarding the
RM-8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor and Grandview-
Woodland
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to establish new zoning
districts, RM 8A/RM 8AN, as part of the RM-8 and RM-8N District Schedules,
and to rezone specified areas in Grandview-Woodland and Cambie Corridor
to RM-8A/RM-8AN to enable the development of townhouses as identified in
the Grandview-Woodland Community Plan and the Cambie Corridor Plan.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received on this application since referral to Public Hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• three in support;
• two in opposition; and
• one regarding other matters related to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the application and, along with
the Assistant Director, Community Planning Division, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, responded to questions.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Allan Buium, Riley Park South Cambie Community Steering Committee
Craig Jorgensen
Amy Lin
Wayne Fougere
Rohana Rezel spoke in opposition to the application and raised concerns with the affordable
housing component.
David Garner, and Varouj Gumuchian, Riley Park South Cambie, spoke to other matters related
to the application regarding acoustic studies, and the need for more public space and housing
options.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:29 pm on Wednesday,
September 5, 2018.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 7
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
A. THAT Council approve the application by the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability to amend the Zoning and Development By-law
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018,
entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law Regarding the
RM-8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor and
Grandview-Woodland”, to:
(i) Create new zoning districts, RM-8A and RM-8AN, as part of the RM-8
and RM-8N Districts Schedule;
(ii) Revise Schedule F;
(iii) Rezone those areas shown outlined in bold on Schedule A from RS-1,
RS-7, RT-4, RT-5, and RT-5N to RM-8A and RM-8AN; and
(iv) Amend Section 3 to revise and detail the requirements for ensuring
adequate drainage of development sites and to better manage
stormwater and groundwater issues.
B. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for the
new RM-8A and RM-8AN districts, generally as set out in Appendix B of the
Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law Regarding the RM-8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas
in Cambie Corridor and Grandview-Woodland”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the by-law to amend the Zoning and
Development By-law, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval, at the time of enactment of such amending by-law,
related amendments to the Parking By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law Regarding the RM-8A/8AN Districts for
Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor and Grandview-Woodland”.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the by-law to amend the Zoning and
Development By-law, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval, at the time of enactment of such amending by-law,
related amendments to the Subdivision By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law Regarding the RM-8A/8AN Districts for
Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor and Grandview-Woodland”.
E. THAT, subject to the enactment of the by-law to amend the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 8
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such
amending by-law, RM-8A and RM-8AN Guidelines, generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law Regarding the RM-8A/8AN Districts for
Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor and Grandview-Woodland”, for Council
adoption.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03292)
5. ODP AMENDMENTS: Amendments to the Arbutus Corridor Official Development
Plan and Regional Context Statement Official Development Plan
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make amendments to the Arbutus Corridor Official Development Plan to
remove lands no longer required for transportation or greenway purposes, in
alignment with the Arbutus Greenway Design Vision; and to make
consequential amendments to the Regional Context Statement Official
Development Plan. These lands will retain their existing zoning.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received on this application since referral to Public Hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• one in support;
• 20 in opposition; and
• two regarding other matters related to the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 9
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability presented the application and, along with
the General Manager, Engineering Services, the Director, Real Estate Services, and the
Assistant Director, Community Planning Division, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability
responded to questions.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application. Many of the speakers raised concerns with
the negative impacts the sale of the option lands will have, in particular, on completion of the
greenway, loss of a potential transportation corridor and public parking:
Naomi Reichstein, Vancouver Public Space Network
Rick Hurlbut, ProVancouver
Jane Devine Mejia
Rohana Rezel, ProVancouver
Brian Kohn
Anne Creaser
Stephen Hynes, President, Hynes Group
Major Nick Watts, 15th Field Artillery Regiment
Deputy Commander Cameron McLean, 39 Canadian Brigade Group, Canadian Armed
Forces
Richard Campbell
Anne Harvey
Lia Hart spoke to the negative impacts that increased population, congestion and lack of green
space have on mental health.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:16 pm on Wednesday,
September 5, 2018.
Staff Closing Comments
The Assistant Director, Community Planning Division, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, provided closing comments and, along with the General Manager, Engineering
Services, responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 10:01 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the meeting be extended to complete Item 5.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 10
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Bremner
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council approve the application to amend the Arbutus Corridor Official
Development Plan to remove lands which are not required for transportation or
greenway purposes, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
July 10, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Arbutus Corridor Official Development Plan
and Regional Context Statement Official Development Plan”;
FURTHER THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Arbutus Corridor Official
Development Plan, Council also approve the consequential amendments to the Regional
Context Statement Official Development Plan By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the above-noted Policy Report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03293)
(Councillors Carr and De Genova opposed)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 10:15 pm and reconvened on Thursday, September 6, 2018, at 6:05 pm.
* * * * *
6. REZONING: 950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)
An application by Acton Ostry Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (285) (Comprehensive Development) District at 950 West
41st Avenue to permit the phased redevelopment of the Jewish Community
Centre campus with a nine storey replacement building, including private
childcare on the eastern portion of the site, and a mixed-use building with
26- and 24-storey residential towers containing 299 social housing units,
additional Jewish Community Centre uses, and commercial uses at grade.
A maximum height of 88.0 metres (289 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of
4.49 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received on the application since referral to Public Hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 21 in support; and
• 10 in opposition.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 11
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability presented the application.
Applicant Comments
Mark Ostry, Acton Ostry Architects Inc., introduced the applicant team and provided brief
opening comments.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
David Bar-Dayan, Tikva Housing Society
Alvin Wasserman
Ezra Shanken, Jewish Community Centre
Bernard Pinsky
Hartley Odwak
Noah McNamara
Elie Grouchko
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:53 pm on September 6, 2018.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Engineering Services and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT the application by Acton Ostry Architects, on behalf of the Jewish
Community Centre of Greater Vancouver, to amend CD-1 (285)
By-law No. 6963 for 950 West 41st Avenue [PID: 009-326-472; Lot 27, Except
Part in Plan 13567 of Lot A Block 1008 District Lot 526 Plan 10622], to
increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.75 to 4.49 and the
building height from 15.5 m (51 ft.) to 88.0 m (289 ft.) to permit the
redevelopment of the existing Jewish Community Centre (JCC) to include a
new nine-storey private non-profit community centre building with private
childcare and a mixed-use building with 26- and 24-storey residential towers
containing a total of 299 social housing units, additional JCC uses and
commercial uses at grade, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment:
950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)”, be approved subject to
the following conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 12
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Acton Ostry Architects, on behalf of
the Jewish Community Centre of Greater Vancouver (JCC), and stamped
“Received Planning & Development Services, March 16, 2018”, provided
that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to the proposed ground plane to increase
pedestrian permeability and usage throughout the site and to
minimize the amount of surface area dedicated to vehicular traffic,
including:
(i) Decrease the area of the proposed pick-up/drop-off space
located due south of the retail concourse, thereby
increasing a larger direct interface between the campus
plaza and the retail concourse.
(ii) Explore reducing the amount of access ramps to the
underground parking garage from two to one.
(iii) Increase the amount of dedicated area for pedestrians in
the proposed mid-block access off West 41st Avenue.
(iv) Explore relocating or removing the proposed exit stair,
pick-up/drop-off and loading space located in the mid-block
access.
(v) Explore increasing the width of the access from the rear
service lane to the mid-block access, in order to
incorporate an informal and welcoming access for
pedestrians.
(vi) Development to the pedestrian walkthrough proposed on
the western edge of the site, with hard and soft
landscaping, and dwelling units that are oriented directly
towards the walkthrough to encourage casual surveillance.
2. Design development to activate the public sidewalk along West
41st Avenue, maximizing entrances to be more commodious and
welcoming as well as maximizing transparent glazing.
3. Design development to the overall architectural expression of the
project, to be reviewed in detail during the Development Permit
phase.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 13
4. Design development to the residential dwelling units to maximize
livability by providing each dwelling unit with an outdoor balcony
of:
(i) no less than 6 ft. in dimensional depth for units that are
two-bedroom or larger; and
(ii) no less than 4 ft. in dimensional depth for units that are
one-bedroom or smaller.
5. Design development to ensure all storage areas meet the
requirements set out in the Bulk Storage and In-Suite Storage
Administration Bulletin:
http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/bulletin/b004.pdf.
6. The proposed unit mix, including 23% one-bedroom units, 20%
two-bedroom units, and 57% three-bedroom units, is to be
included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or the Development Permit Board provided that it does
not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be
suitable for families with children.
7. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
buildings in the application for a development permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
8. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for the following:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
9. Design development to provide a more conservative tree removal
strategy which retains as many high-quality trees as possible while
still allowing a viable development. Wherever possible, this should
include:
(i) Site trees #228-231, 234, and 236;
(ii) City trees #C01-C23; and
(iii) Adjacent property trees #N01-N03.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 14
Note to Applicant: It is expected that all developments will adhere
to Council’s approved Urban Forest Canopy Strategy by retaining
a maximum number of viable trees at the site edges (thereby still
allowing development), including some site trees, all City trees
and all adjacent property trees. It is understood that this may
require revisions to the building footprint and/or parkade. A
revised arborist report should document and make
recommendations for methods of protection for trees to be
retained.
10. Design development to provide some areas on grade, free of
underground parkade, in addition to areas of protected existing
trees, where new larger trees can be established for more viable
and higher quality landscape.
Note to Applicant: It is understood that this may require revisions
to the building footprint and/or parkade.
11. Design development to improve circulation system, reducing
vehicular impact on pedestrian and cycling uses. Refer to
Condition (b)1.
12. Design development to improve the public/private interface by
enabling more permeable pedestrian connections between the
courtyard and the public realm. Refer to Condition (b)1.
Note to Applicant: This should be confirmed by sections from
roadway edges to building facades, including provision of clear
grades.
13. Design development to provide substantial common outdoor
amenity areas, contiguous with indoor amenity rooms for resident
use, in addition to daycare facilities. The common areas should be
programmed with activities which promote social gathering and
interaction, such as children’s play, urban agriculture, and passive
seating opportunities.
Note to Applicant: Urban agriculture plots should follow the City’s
Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and include
infrastructure required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc.
Garden plots should be wheelchair accessible. Outdoor spaces
should be visually accessible from common indoor amenity rooms.
14. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and public
realm.
15. Design development to the landscape treatment to increase the
volume of soil, tree canopy cover, and planting on slab, as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 15
(i) Consideration for intensive/extensive green roof and
related amenity programming; and
(ii) Lower the slab in the courtyard area below the planters, to
the greatest extent practicable.
Note to Applicant: Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab
should be designed to maximize soil depths. This will require
integration of the landscape design and the structural plan. Soil
depths should exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard. At the
perimeter of the building the slab can be angled downward
(1 m across and 1.2 m deep) to maximize contiguous soil
volumes.
16. Design development to the Integrated Rainwater Management
Strategy to explore opportunities for onsite rainwater infiltration
and soil absorption, as follows:
(i) Maximize natural landscape best management practices;
(ii) Minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water
storage;
(iii) Increase the amount of planting to the rooftop areas,
where possible;
(iv) Consider linear infiltration bioswales along property lines;
(v) Use permeable paving;
(vi) Employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever
possible); and
(vii) Use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage
areas.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the City of Vancouver’s Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP), Volumes 1 and 2, for further
information. A consulting engineer (subject matter expert) will
need to be engaged and early phase soil analysis will be needed.
Further comments may be outstanding at the development permit
stage.
17. Provision of plans, plan details and documentation/calculations
that support integrated rainwater management, including
absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and detention systems, as
follows:
(i) Detailed storm water report with calculations describing
how the various best management practices contribute to
the quality and quantity targets;

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 16
(ii) A separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic
grading indicating intent to direct rainwater to filtration
zones;
(iii) An overlay plan that shows the amount and ratio of
vegetative cover (green roof), permeable/impermeable
hardscaping and notations describing the storage location
of rainwater falling on each surface, including roofs.
Note to Applicant: The sustainable summary water balance
calculations assume soil volumes are capable of receiving
rainwater are only valid if water is directed from hard surfaces to
infiltration zones.
18. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
19. Coordination between arborist report and plans to clarify tree
retention/removals.
20. Provision of a detailed landscape plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1’ scale minimum.
The plant list should include the common and botanical name,
size and quantity of all existing/proposed plant material. Plant
material should be clearly illustrated on the plan and keyed to the
plant list. The landscape plan should include the public realm
treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed street trees,
adjoining walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista transformers,
and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, and fire
hydrants.
21. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross-sections
(minimum 1/4 in. scale) through common open spaces,
semi-private patio areas, and the public realm.
Note to Applicant: The sections should illustrate the slab design
and location, the soil profile, tree rootball, tree canopy, and any
associated landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas,
illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside
dimension), soil, rootball, retaining walls, steps, patios and
portions of the adjacent building, such as residential units or
amenity rooms.
22. Provision of a tree management plan.
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management
plan become the primary document for tree removal/protection
related matters.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 17
23. Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include
signatures by the owner, contractor and arborist.
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties are
aware of the roles and responsibilities and that the project is on
track to satisfy the steps and recommendations outlined by the
arborist. For example, advanced planning will be needed to
ensure that certain works, such as site supervision checkpoints,
are coordinated.
24. Coordination for the provision of new street trees adjacent to the
development site, where applicable.
Note to Applicant: New street trees are to be shown and
confirmed on the development permit plans. Contact Eileen
Curran, Street Engineering (604.871.6131) to confirm street tree
spacing and quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604.257.8587) of
Park Board regarding tree species and planting requirements.
Include a notation on the plan as follows: “Final spacing, quantity
and tree species to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services. New trees must be of good standard,
minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved root barriers,
tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 7 ft. long
and 18 in. in depth. Planting depth of root ball must be below
sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree planting
completion.”
25. Provision of high-efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
hose bibs for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation connection
points and hose bib symbols accurately and provide a highlighted
note to verify the irrigation is to be designed and constructed.
Hose bibs are requested to encourage patio gardening and
hand-watering on private patio and amenity decks.
26. Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical landscape
structures and features, such as green walls, trellises, etc.
27. Provision of an outdoor lighting plan.
Sustainability
28. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 18
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate that
the development is on track to achieve the above requirements at
each stage of permit. For phased developments, it is expected that
the individual development permits will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings in effect at the time of
development permit application. For more detail on the above
requirements and what must be submitted at each stage, refer to
the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings –
Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017, or later).
29. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition #28, the applicant
may choose, at time of Development Permit, to meet a
greenhouse gas outcome equivalent to connecting to a
low-carbon neighbourhood energy system. This equivalence must
be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning,
and may include achieving a 50% GHG reduction from a
high-efficiency natural-gas scenario, achieving the GHG limits of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (last amended
February 2017), or a Certified Passive House.
Note to Applicant: If following the greenhouse gas outcome
equivalency option, the applicant will be required at each stage of
permit to submit energy model results, for review by Sustainability,
demonstrating that the development is on track to achieve the
above requirements and what must be submitted.
Engineering
30. Transportation has reviewed the transportation study provided
with this application and is comfortable with the proposed
reduction in community centre parking proposed in the TAMS
subject to resolution of the other transportation-related issues
outlined in the design development conditions.
31. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
32. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way.
33. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 19
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision
of written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please
contact Engineering Services for details.
34. Please place the following statements on the landscape plan:
“This plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted
for review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to
the start of any construction proposed for public property. No work
on public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”.
Note to Applicant: All planting on street rights-of-way are to be
maintained by the adjacent property owner.
35. All plant materials within the same continuous planting area which
is located on street right-of-way within 10 m, measured from the
corner, of an intersection, pedestrian crossing, entrance to a
driveway or other conflict areas where sightlines need to be
maintained for safety reasons, shall not exceed a mature height of
0.6 m, measured from the sidewalk.
36. All plant material within the street right-of-way that is located
outside of the areas described in Condition (b)35 shall not exceed
1 m in height, measured from the sidewalk.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 20
37. Plants shall be planted in such a way as to not encroach on the
sidewalk, street, lane, and/or bike lane. Provide a minimum 30 cm
buffer of low ground cover in planting beds adjacent to sidewalks.
38. Existing bus shelter shall be protected in place or removed and
reinstalled at a new location as necessary. Illustrate location of
bus shelters on landscape plan, including notes on replacement.
This work is to be coordinated with Street Activities.
Note to Applicant: All costs associated with the removal and
subsequent reinstallation of street furniture during construction
and upon completion of construction shall be the responsibility of
the developer.
39. Existing trash receptacles on street right-of-way shall be protected
in place or removed and reinstalled at a new location as
necessary. Illustrate location of trash receptacles on landscape
plan, including notes on replacement. This work is to be
coordinated with Street Activities.
40. A review of any non-standard existing tree on Engineering
property to determine if they are acceptable to Engineering
Services and the Park Board.
41. Design development to reduce the width of the driveway on 41st
Avenue to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
42. Design development to provide the number of passenger loading
spaces more in line with Parking By-law requirements.
43. Provision of improved drawings showing the location of the poles
and guy wires within the lane or confirm that poles are being
removed.
Note to Applicant: Exhibit D of the traffic study showing the truck
maneuvering within the lane is missing the pole locations. The
H pole at the Y-intersection in the lane and other poles may
interfere with maneuvering or loading spaces shown.
44. Confirm the largest vehicle dropping off at grade in drawing
SK103 is showing buses. If buses are dropping off at grade,
provide turning swaths to confirm the required maneuvering is
being provided. The analysis in the traffic study is showing
passenger vehicles.
45. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 21
(i) Design development to provide the required ramp width for
two-way flow at the top of the angled ramp in the lane and
provide turning swaths to confirm.
(ii) Clarify and confirm if there is access from the surface drop-
off area to the lane. Drawing SK203 is showing a 6.7 m
dimension at the bend in the lane.
(iii) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
(iv) All Class A bicycle spaces must be located on the P1
parking level or at grade.
Note to Applicant: The following information is required for
drawing submission at the development permit stage to facilitate a
complete transportation review:
• A complete tech table is required showing the calculations
for the minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces
and the number of spaces being provided.
• All types of parking and loading spaces individually
numbered and labelled on the drawings.
• Dimension of column encroachments into parking stalls.
• Dimension for typical parking spaces.
• Dimensions of additional setbacks for parking spaces due
to columns and walls.
• Dimensions of manoeuver aisles and the drive aisles at the
parkade entrance and all gates.
• Section drawings showing elevations and minimum vertical
clearances for parking levels, loading bays, ramps, and
security gates. These clearances must consider
mechanical projections and built obstructions.
• Areas of minimum vertical clearances labelled on parking
levels.
• Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and drive
aisles at all breakpoints, loading bays, disability spaces,
and at all entrances. The slope and length of the ramped
sections at all breakpoints to be shown on the submitted
drawings.
• Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside. Stair ramps are not
generally acceptable and confirm the use of the parking
ramp, if required.
• The location of all poles and guy wires on the site plan.
Green Infrastructure
46. Submission requirements for the development permit stage must
include the following elements:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 22
(i) Pre-development site plan showing orthophoto and
existing drainage areas and appurtenances.
(ii) A proposed site plan that delineates drainage areas,
including the area measurements for pervious/impervious
areas, and identifies appropriately sized green
infrastructure practices for each of those areas.
(iii) Geotechnical study that evaluates the potential and risks
for onsite rainwater infiltration.
a. Infiltration testing at likely locations for infiltration
practices and a proposed design infiltration rate.
b. Soil stratigraphy.
c. Depth to bedrock and seasonally high groundwater.
d. Assessment of infiltration risks such as slope
stability and soil contamination.
(iv) Hydrologic and hydraulic analysis prepared by a qualified
professional in the area of rainwater management showing
how the site will meet the requirements of the policy.
(v) If lower tier green infrastructure options are chosen, then
justifications must be included in the Rainwater
Management Plan (RMP) report.
(vi) Details on how the targets set out above will be achieved
through the development phases and once all
development phases are complete.
(vii) Include supplementary documentation for any proprietary
projects that clearly demonstrates how they contribute to
the targets.
(viii) An updated and more detailed RMP from the rezoning
submission that is signed and sealed by a qualified
engineer.
(ix) The plan and report must demonstrate that access has
been provided for maintaining the rainwater management
system, such as providing truck access for pumping out
sediment traps.
(x) Maintenance and operation guide for the rainwater
management system that will be provided to the eventual
owner or party responsible for maintenance.
Note to Applicant: The building/public realm should be designed to
show leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building
systems including an integrative approach to rainwater

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 23
management to minimize potable water use and encourage the
use of alternative water sources in areas such as toilet flushing
and irrigation.
Affordable Housing
47. Prior to issuance of a development permit, the applicant is to
install and display a sign on the site, throughout construction, that
acknowledges that social housing is being provided in partnership
with the City of Vancouver. Sign design, format and location are to
be approved by the City of Vancouver.
48. Submission of a draft operating budget and rent schedule
demonstrating a viable optimisation of affordability on this site with
a minimum of 30% of housing units in the building renting to
households with incomes below the BC Housing Income Limits
(HILs) or such other greater percentage of housing units rented to
such households with a view of maximizing affordability while
ensuring the financial viability of the project, with a review of same
prior to issuance of a development permit, all to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
Note to Applicant: Opportunities to lower rents to levels which
would make units eligible for rent supplements and/or subsidy
programs which may be available from senior governments will be
explored and, if possible, secured at the development permit
stage as a condition of the development permit. Such measures
may provide opportunities for a greater number of residents with
fixed and/or limited incomes to access housing in this community.
Cultural Services
49. Provision of a theatre study to determine the appropriate theatre
scale and design to best serve the Jewish Community Centre and
larger arts and cultural communities.
Note to Applicant: Funding support may potentially be available
through the City of Vancouver’s Cultural Infrastructure Grant
program. Please contact Debra Bodner, Cultural Planner.
50. Design development to ensure that all areas are fully accessible,
including the back of house and stage areas, for audience,
performers, crews and other staff.
Social Planning
51. Provide a Sustainable Food System Plan to include a minimum of
three food systems assets as described in the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, to the satisfaction of the
Director of Social Policy.
(i) Provide more details on the location and design of the
edible landscaping.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 24
(ii) Provide more details on the location and design of space
to accommodate a community food market.
(iii) Provide additional details on the location, type of machine
and management structure for the on-site organics
management system.
Note to Applicant: The rezoning application identifies the above
food assets (edible landscaping, community food market, and
on-site organics management) that can count towards the
required three food assets that must be delivered as part of the
development. The conditions above are intended as ways to
strengthen the submission.
Childcare
52. Design development to ensure that the private childcare is
licensable by Community Care Facilities Licensing and meets the
intent of the City’s Childcare Design Guidelines.
53. Design development to ensure that the indoor and outdoor space
of the private childcare are designed to maximize opportunities for
healthy child development while ensuring an operationally
sustainable facility for the operator.
54. Design development of the outdoor private childcare space to be
adequate and contiguous, to maximize solar access, ensure
maximum visibility for supervision, and accommodate adequate
storage on-site for program equipment and strollers.
55. Licensee is to provide an emergency plan per Provincial
regulations to the satisfaction of Community Care Facilities
Licensing.
56. Subdivide each floor area for each program of the private
childcare (walls and doors) into at least two fire compartments or
protected spaces. Each fire compartment is to have direct access
to at least one exit stair.
57. Prepare a fire safety plan what will meet the requirements of the
Fire By-law conforming to Division B, 2.8.2.1.(1), prepared in
cooperation with the fire department and other applicable
regulatory authorities and including:
(i) The emergency procedures to be used in case of fire,
including:
a. Sounding the fire alarm;
b. Notifying the fire department;
c. Instructing occupants on procedures to be followed
when the fire alarm sounds;

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 25
d. Evacuating occupants, including special provisions
for person requiring assistance; and
e. Confining, controlling and extinguishing the fire.
(ii) The appointment and organization of designated
supervisory staff to carry out fire safety duties.
(iii) The training of supervisory staff and other occupants in
their responsibilities for fire safety.
(iv) Documents, including diagrams, showing the type, location
and operation of the building fire emergency systems.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Release of Easement and Indemnity Agreement 508105M
(commercial crossings) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
2. It is recommended that the applicant make arrangements with the
neighbouring strata LMS4350 for the release of Easement
505150M (for access purposes) as shown on Explanatory Plan
10434, as it is no longer being used for that purpose.
3. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) for public pedestrian use of an extended
sidewalk over the area of the site adjacent to the north property
line along 41st Avenue from Willow Street to the main site
entrance to achieve a 5.5 m (18 ft.) distance as measured from
the back of the existing City curb, and a building setback and a 3.3
m (10.8 ft.) surface SRW over the north side of the site adjacent to
41st Avenue from the above noted main entrance to the west
property line.
Note to Applicant: The SRW will be free of any encumbrance at
grade such as structure, stairs, planter walls, door swing,
benches, chairs and tables, and bicycle parking. The SRW
agreement will have to accommodate portions of the parkade and

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 26
aquatic centre at levels P1 to P3 and portions of the building
above level 3 within the SRW area.
4. Provision of a building setback and a surface SRW for public
pedestrian use on the west side of the site to achieve a 4.5 m
(14.8 ft.) distance from the west property line for a pedestrian
connection from 41st Avenue to the lane.
Note to Applicant: The SRW will be free of any encumbrance at
grade such as structure, stairs, planter walls, door swing,
benches, chairs and tables, and bicycle parking.
5. Provision of a building setback and a 5.5 m (18 ft.) surface SRW
for public pedestrian use and the PBS station on the east side of
the site adjacent to Willow Street.
Note to Applicant: The SRW will be free of any encumbrance at
grade such as structure, stairs, planter walls, door swing,
benches, chairs and tables, and bicycle parking. A separate SRW
agreement for the Public Bike Share (PBS) station is required but
can be accommodated within the 5.5 m SRW. Detailed design to
be confirmed at the development permit stage.
6. Consideration of the provision of a pedestrian SRW from 41st
Avenue to the lane south of 41st Avenue, aligned with the
proposed vehicle driveway access.
7. Provision of a Green Mobility Plan to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
8. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights-of-way for the services are provided.
No development permit for this site will be issued until the security
for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. Based on an estimate of the
development’s water demands, the water system should
be adequate to service the development. No upgrades
currently noted. Supply project details including confirmed
fire flow calculations based on the Fire Underwriter’s
Survey’s document, Water Supply for Public Fire
Protection, the sprinkler demands based on NFPA 13/14,
average day domestic water demands, and peak hour
domestic water demands (sealed by a qualified Engineer)
to confirm that water system upgrades are not required.
Should review of the confirmed project details deem
upgrading is necessary, then arrangements to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services will be required

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 27
to secure payment for the upgrading. The developer is
responsible for 100% of any water system upgrading that
may be required.
Note to Applicant: The main servicing the proposed
development is 200 mm. Should the development require
services larger than 200 mm, the upsizing of existing water
mains will be required.
(ii) Provision of a fire hydrant fronting the development.
(iii) Provision of the design and construction of the following:
a. 110 m of 750-1050 mm diameter storm main and
110 m of 375-450 mm diameter sanitary main on
41st Avenue from MH_FJCP50 (existing service to
Oakridge Transit Centre) to Oak Street.
b. 190 m of 1050-1200 mm diameter storm main and
190 m of 375-450 mm diameter sanitary main on
Oak Street from 41st Avenue to 43rd Avenue.
c. 110 m of 1050-1200mm diameter storm main and
110 m of 375-450 mm diameter sanitary main on
43rd Avenue from Oak Street to Fremlin Street.
Note to Applicant: Existing 200 mm diameter combined
sewer does not have sufficient capacity to convey
additional flow from development. Further, no new
connections are to be tied into this combined sewer so the
easement through the existing properties can be
eliminated in the future. Due to this, separated sewers
must be constructed to service this redevelopment.
The sewer upgrading costs borne by this project may be
reduced should benefiting nearby development proceed
concurrently with this project with the said reduction to be
determined at the sole discretion of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
The lengths and diameters of these improvements are
approximate and subject to detailed design by the
Developer’s Engineer. Developer’s Engineer to submit
design brief, calculations and/or model, and design
drawings to the City. Submittals are to be reviewed and
accepted by the City Engineer. Development is to be
serviced to the proposed storm and sanitary sewers on
41st Avenue.
(iv) The post-development 10-year flow rate discharged to the
sewer shall be no greater than the 10-year
pre-development flow rate. The pre-development estimate
shall utilize the 2014 IDF curves, whereas the

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 28
post-development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF
curves to account for climate change.
(v) Provision of a groundwater management plan to be
reviewed and accepted by the City Engineer. The plan
shall include confirmation that no groundwater will be
discharged to the sewer system.
Note to Applicant: Restrictions on the release rate and/or
allowable timing of discharging the swimming pool will
likely be required. Further information and analysis will be
required to determine what the restrictions will be.
Easement(s) or right(s)-of-way may be required based on
the servicing strategy.
(vi) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(vii) Provision of street reconstruction on 41st Avenue adjacent
to the site to generally include the following: new curb and
gutter, new front boulevard with street trees, raised
protected bike lane, light broom finish saw cut concrete
sidewalk, curb ramps, transit passenger amenities
including concrete passenger landing pad and concrete
bus slabs in the curb lane from Oak Street to the future
B-line transit stop, bus shelters, litter cans, and benches
and adjustments to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed street improvements.
(viii) Provision of street reconstruction on Willow Street from
41st Avenue to the lane south of 41st Avenue to generally
include the following: new curb and gutter, new front
boulevard with street trees, raised protected bike lane, light
broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk, curb ramps and
necessary adjustments to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed street improvements.
(ix) Full lane reconstruction for the lane south of 41st Avenue
adjacent to the site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 29
(x) Removal of the existing driveway crossing on Willow Street
and provision of new curb and gutter.
(xi) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing including
new curb returns and curb ramps on both sides of the lane
entry on Willow Street as per City standard.
(xii) Provision of new curb ramps at the intersection of 41st
Avenue and Willow Street as per City standard.
(xiii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(xiv) Provision of a 3.05 m (10 ft.) light broom finish saw cut
concrete sidewalk in the SRW area on the west side of the
site.
(xv) Provision of a full signal at Willow Street and 41st Avenue.
(xvi) Provision of a full signal at 41st Avenue and the driveway
access to the subject site.
(xvii) Provision of $40,000, towards signal modifications at Oak
Street and 41st Avenue, including an accessible
pedestrian signal (APS) and LED lighting.
Note to Applicant: Provision of the APS would require
relocation of the fire hydrant on the southeast corner of
Oak Street and 41st Avenue at an anticipated cost of
approximately $20,000.
9. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but are not
limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted transformers
and kiosks (including non BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on
private property with no reliance on public property for placement
of these features. There will be no reliance on secondary voltage
from the existing overhead electrical network on the street
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground
utility network to accommodate this development will require
approval by the Utilities Management Branch. The applicant may
be required to show details of how the site will be provided with all
services being underground.
10. Provision for an SRW for space to accommodate a Public Bike
Share (PBS) station. The applicant is to confirm the following
requirements for the PBS station at development permit:

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 30
(i) Size: At a minimum a 16 m x 4 m sized SRW is required to
accommodate the PBS station. The proposed 16 m x 4 m
PBS space as shown on Drawing SK 203 at the northeast
corner of the site along Willow Street is acceptable.
(ii) Access: Consideration for placement of building elements
(e.g. fire department connections, HVAC, vents, etc.) and
landscaping that require frequent access and maintenance
directly adjacent to the PBS space. These elements shall not
be in conflict or cause frequent disruption to the PBS station.
(iii) Surface treatment: A hard surface, CIP concrete (saw cut or
broom finished) is required with no utility access points
within the PBS station footprint (except as noted below).
Any utility access point within 1 m of the PBS space is to be
identified and shown in a detailed drawing submitted. Other
firm, paved materials are subject to approval.
(iv) Grades: The surface must be leveled with a maximum
cross slope of 3% and have a consistent grade (i.e. no
grade transitions) along the length with a maximum slope
of 5%. At minimum, spot elevations at the four corners of
the station must be provided. The applicant is to provide
spot elevations at the four corners of the PBS space to
ensure it meets grade requirements.
(v) Sun exposure: There must a minimum of 5 m vertical
clearance above the PBS space in order to maximize sun
exposure as the PBS station operates on solar power.
Ideally the station should receive 5 hours of direct sunlight
per day.
(vi) Power: Provision of an electrical service and electrical
power is to be available in close proximity to the PBS
station. The applicant is to show the location of the
electrical connection on the drawing.
Green Infrastructure
11. Provide a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details how the
rainwater management system meets the Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan (IRMP) requirements for retention, cleaning
and safe conveyance, prepared by a subject matter expert
(Engineer) and signed/sealed by same, subject to review. The
applicant should take into account the following:
(i) Runoff from the first 24 mm of rainfall from all areas,
including rooftops, paved areas and landscape, must be
retained and treated on site (landscapes over native
subsoils with appropriately sized topsoil meets the 24 mm
retention requirement).

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 31
(ii) Staff do not accept the principle that distinct site areas that
have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way
compensate for those areas of the site that are impervious,
without the first and second 24 mm of runoff from the
impervious areas being directed towards these absorbent
areas, and this being clearly demonstrated:
a. Where areas of growing medium do not have runoff
directed on to them from adjacent impervious
surfaces they shall be assumed to be
receiving/treating/storing only the rainfall that falls
directly onto them.
b. IRMP targets are to be achieved on site, i.e. without
using street right-of-way.
(iii) The applicant must prioritize methods of retention
according to the three tiers below. Justification must be
provided for using a lower tier retention option. The tiers
are as follows:
a. 1st tier priority green infrastructure practices:
rainwater harvesting for reuse, green roofs, and
infiltration.
b. 2nd tier priority green infrastructure practices:
retention within non-infiltrating landscapes,
including absorbent landscape on slab, closed
bottom planter boxes, and lined bioretention
systems.
c. 3rd tier priority green infrastructure practices:
detention storage with treatment and slow release.
(iv) Surfaces designed for motor vehicle use and other high
pollutant generating surfaces require an additional 24 mm
of treatment beyond the first 24 mm retained (for a total of
48 mm treated).
(v) Water quality volume (24 mm for low pollutant generating
surfaces like roofs and 48 mm for high pollutant generating
surfaces like driveways) that leaves the site must be
treated to a standard of 80% TSS removal by mass by
using either individual BMPs that meet the standard or
treatment trains of BMPs that, when combined, meet the
standard. For proprietary treatment devices:
a. Provide product information for all treatment
practices.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 32
b. Products need to be certified by TAPE (The
Technology Assessment Protocol – Ecology
Program), Washington State’s Department of
Ecology’s process for evaluating and approving
emerging rainwater treatment BMPs. The applicant
may propose other technologies but must provide
supporting information that shows the technology
meets the standard.
Housing
12. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successor in function)
and the Director of Legal Services to enter into a Housing
Agreement which satisfies, among other things, the below
conditions and terms.
(i) Secure all dwelling units as social housing for 60 years or
the life of the building, whichever is greater, subject to the
following condition:
a. Requiring such units to be used for “social
housing”, as that term is defined in the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law No. 9755,
including, without limitation, the requirement that a
minimum of 30% of the units will be rented at or
below rents affordable to households which earn
under the BC Housing Income Limits (HILs) levels;
(ii) In addition to the 30% of the units required to be rented at
or below HILs referenced immediately above, secure 10%
of the dwelling units at or below the following initial starting
monthly rents for each unit type subject to adjustment in
line with the Annual Allowable Rent Increase published by
the provincial Residential Tenancy Branch;
Unit Type DCL By-law Rent (Average)
1-bedroom $1,903
2-bedrooms $2,756
3-bedrooms $3,702
(iii) A no separate sales covenant;
(iv) A no stratification covenant;
(v) A provision that none of the dwelling units in the building
be rented for less than one month at a time; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 33
(vi) Including such other terms and conditions as the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the
Director of Legal Services may require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by
by-law enacted pursuant to Section 595.2 of the
Vancouver Charter.
The JCC and City of Vancouver both support an increase
to the proposal’s residential affordability, and as such the
JCC will work with the City of Vancouver and other
partners in good faith to further increase unit affordability
beyond the above provided the financial resources are
available at the time of development.
Sustainability
13. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Public Art
14. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager (a checklist will be
provided).
Note to applicant: Please contact Eric Fredericksen, Public Art
Program Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
15. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter;

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 34
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Protection, City Engineer and Director of
Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of
the property owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the Land
Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over other such liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to the enactment of the
CD-1 By-law contemplated by the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Text Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)”,
subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of
the Director of Legal Services, the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability, and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue
(Jewish Community Centre)”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Parking By-law at the time of
enactment of the CD-1 By-law to provide parking regulations generally as set
out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, September 5 and 6, 2018 35
E. THAT, subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the
time of enactment of the CD-1 By-law to include this CD-1 in Schedule A,
generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community
Centre)”.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03294)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Affleck
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 7:13 pm.
* * * * *