PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 31, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 31, 2018, at 6 pm, in the
Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck* (Conflict of Interest on Item 1)
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer*
ABSENT: Councillor Tim Stevenson (Leave of Absence)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development and Sign
By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Louie, Reimer and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Interim Hotel Development Policy and Related Amendments
to the Downtown Official Development Plan
At 6:05 pm, Councillor Affleck declared Conflict of Interest on this application as he lives in one
of the townhouses in the area affected by the proposed policy changes. He left the meeting and
did not return until the conclusion of the vote on this item.
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Downtown Official Development Plan to allow hotel as a
conditionally permitted land use within Area N up to 5.0 FSR or to the density
of existing hotels if higher, and within Area L1 up to 1.0 FSR. Two associated
zoning policies are recommended, a hotel conversion policy and a policy that
supports future opportunities for hotel development. The intention is to
moderate the loss of hotel rooms and encourage new hotels. Further work will
be undertaken as part of future planning programs including the Broadway
Plan and City Core 2050.
Council also had before it a memo dated July 24, 2018, from the Assistant Director of Current
Planning which recommended a change to the Interim Hotel Development Policy as set out in
the Policy Report dated June 28, 2018, entitled “Interim Hotel Development Policy and Related
Amendments to the Downtown Official Development Plan”, to increase flexibility and inhibit the
fulfillment of the policy intent to support innovative hotel options with modest room sizes. The
recommended change was contained in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list:
• three letters in support of the application;
• five letters opposed to the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:35 pm.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with the General Manager of
Development, Building and Licensing, responded to questions.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Council heard from three speakers in support of the application, who noted the need for more
hotel spaces in order to support the tourism industry:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 3
Ty Speer, President and CEO, Tourism Vancouver
Javier Cepeda, Onni Group
Marsha Walden, Destination BC
John Yano spoke in opposition to the application.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of Development,
Buildings and Licensing, and Mr. Speer, responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT, in order to retain hotel uses downtown, Council approve the application to
amend the Downtown Official Development Plan to add hotel as a conditionally
permitted land use in Area N and Area L1, generally as set out in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated June 28, 2018, entitled “Interim Hotel Development
Policy and Related Amendments to the Downtown Official Development Plan”.
B. THAT Council adopt the Interim Hotel Development Policy, generally as
presented in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated June 28, 2018, entitled
“Interim Hotel Development Policy and Related Amendments to the Downtown
Official Development Plan”, to inform community planning initiatives and for the
consideration of rezoning and development applications and enquiries.
EXCEPT THAT Section 2 of the proposed interim policy be amended to delete
the following text:
“Hotel Facilities - New hotels will be required to have lobby areas for
checking in guests and back of house facilities for housekeeping staff.
Hotel floor plans and facilities should be clearly distinguishable from a
residential building.”
C. THAT Council direct staff to continue monitoring the supply of hotel rooms and
consider policy options and zoning supportive of hotel development as part of
future planning programs including the Broadway Plan and City Core 2050.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03250)
(Councillor Affleck absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 4
2. REZONING: 3070 Kingsway
An application by Conwest Ventures Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 3070 Kingsway from C-2 (Commercial) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District to permit the development of a six-storey mixed-use
building and three-storey townhouses at the lane with commercial at grade
and 40 for-profit affordable rental housing units. A height of 21.5 m (70.5 ft.)
and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.48 are proposed.
Council also had before it a memo dated July 24, 2018, from the Assistant Director, Current
Planning, which corrected technical errors in the conditions of approval relating to fire access to
the townhomes at the rear of the site. The changes were integrated into the summary and
recommendation of the Public Hearing agenda.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
Agenda, and the memo dated July 24, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3070 Kingsway”.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list:
• two letters in support of the application, and
• five letters opposed to the application.
Applicant Comments
Joe Carreira, Conwest Group, introduced the application.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:04 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application, by Conwest Ventures Ltd. on behalf of 3070 Kingsway
Inc., to rezone 3070 Kingsway [Lots 1 and 2, Except Part in Reference Plan
2424, Block 16 District Lot 37 Plan 3952; PIDs 011-986-549 and 011-986-565
respectively] from C-2 (Commercial) to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District to increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.50 to 3.48 and
the building height from 13.8 m (45.3 ft.) to 21.5 m (70.5 ft.) to permit the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 5
development of a six-storey mixed-use building and three-storey townhouses at
the lane with commercial at grade and 40 for-profit affordable rental housing
units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
July 6, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3070 Kingsway”, be approved subject to
the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by GBL Architects and received
November 10, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow
minor alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve livability by removing the external
courtyard stairs. Stair access should be internalized within the
townhome development. Removal of the exterior stair also
prevents the need for vertical privacy screens which create
Horizontal Angle of Daylight concerns.
2. Design development to improve the privacy and outdoor open
space of the ground-floor two-bedroom/ 817 sq. ft. unit, as the
visual access between the bedrooms and the courtyard is a
concern.
Note to Applicant: A two-bedroom ground-floor unit that satisfies
privacy and daylight expectations for livability may not be possible
in this configuration.
3. Design development to improve livability by reducing overlook and
privacy concerns between units. Recommendations include the
use of privacy mitigation techniques such as landscaping, privacy
screens or solid guardrails.
Note to Applicant: Clearly show this on the drawings. Any changes
in courtyard configuration may not result in a reduction in
courtyard depth to less than 6.1 m.
4. Design development to improve livability by improving the unit
design of the western studio units on levels four to six by
increasing unit width.
Note to Applicant: The unit appears to be only 6 ft. wide in places,
a unit of this width is not supportable; consideration to combine
the 469 sq. ft. and 443 sq. ft. units into one unit.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 6
5. Design development to improve livability by exploring additional
daylight access to the western studio units on levels four to six.
Note to Applicant: If the units are combined, recommendation is to
add additional glazing to the south east facing wall.
6. Confirm that the Horizontal Angle of Daylight requirements of the
CD-1 By-law are met.
Note to Applicant: Clearly show this on the drawings. Note that the
distance that the Horizontal Angle of Daylight (HAD) plane
extends has been relaxed in section 6.2 of the CD-1 By-law from
the standard 24.0 m to 6.1 m. Refer to the C-2 Design Guidelines
for guidance.
7. Design development to enhance the quality of the lane and
considering the treatment of the transformer and utility spaces.
Note to Applicant: Provide 4 ft. landscaping treatment in the rear
setback.
8. Design development to improve circulation and access by
reconfiguring the internal circulation space to provide direct
access between the commercial loading bay and the commercial
units and to limit impact on residential units.
9. Design development to improve circulation and access by
provision of residential corridors that are not overly long or
circuitous; residential corridors should be adequately sized to
facilitate the moving of furniture.
Note to Applicant: It is recommended to incorporate a circulation
route directly from the lobby to the courtyard along the east wall.
This may require reconfiguration of the amenity space. Also refer
to building code condition of approval.
10. Design development to more clearly articulate and identify the
residential entrance along of Kingsway. This may be achieved
through the incorporation of distinctive materials, lighting, signage
and or canopy treatments.
Note to Applicant: Bicycle racks should be located away from the
front entry in order to enhance the entry experience and decrease
potential Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design
(CPTED) concerns.
11. Design development to consider the architectural treatment of
(i) the east wall adjacent to existing co-op development.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 7
(ii) the west wall next to the level two deck space of the
adjacent six-storey development.
Note to Applicant: Walls exposed for the foreseeable future are to
be treated with an increased quality of materiality and expression.
12. Design development to consider the impact of shadowing on the
development to the west.
Note to Applicant: show the adjacent western property’s proposed
level two floor plan and deck space in the shadow analysis
drawings.
13. Weather protection should be continuous across façade (including
residential entrance).
Note to Applicant: clearly show extent of weather protection above
on the ground level floor plan. Provision of canopy details and
sections is recommended for the development permit submission
package.
Affordable Housing
14. That the proposed unit mix, 28 percent 2-bedroom units and 10
percent 3-bedroom units be included in the Development Permit
drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 35 percent of the dwelling units designed to be
suitable for families with children.
15. The building is to comply with the High Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity
room with kitchenette and accessible washroom.
Note to Applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas
should be adjacent to one another and have direct visual and
physical connection between them.
16. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
secured market rental housing is being provided as part of the City
of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and location to be
approved by the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 8
Engineering
17. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver
Parking By-Law.
18. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
19. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
20. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
21. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from the
location shown without reliance of the lane for extended bin
storage If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.
22. Clearly show the existing property line and the proposed Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) line on the site and landscape plans.
23. Development to be serviced to the existing storm and sanitary
sewers on Kingsway.
24. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over
public property. Note canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the drip

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 9
line is achieving maximum and continuous weather protection for
the sidewalk users.
25. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan; This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
26. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to engineering for
review.
27. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room.
28. Provision of a plan showing the access route for the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
29. Design development to improve the parkade layout, the loading
and the access design and compliance with the Parking and
Loading Design Supplement to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services, including:
(i) Provision of a warning light system for the single lane
ramp.
Note to Applicant: A qualified Transportation Engineer to
provide details on the system and the design to also
include cyclist use, if the ramp is to be used for Class A
bicycle access. The locations of all lights, signs and
detection devices to be shown on the Architectural
drawings.
(ii) Provision of a 6.6 m (21.66 ft.) vehicle maneuvering aisle
width or provide 2.74 m (9 ft.) stall widths.
(iii) Provision of a security gate for the residential parking.
Note to Applicant: 2.3 m vertical clearance is required at
the gate for access and manoeuvering to disability parking.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 10
(iv) Provision of a double load throat for the Class B loading
bay.
(v) Provision of an overhead door at the rear of the loading
bay for loading operations.
(vi) Provision of minimum 3.5m vertical clearance for the Class
B loading.
(vii) Provision of stair free loading access from the Class B
loading bay to the commercial unit.
(viii) Label Class B loading Bay as shared use Residential and
Commercial.
30. The following information is required for drawing submission at the
development permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation
review of compliance with the Parking and Loading Design
Supplement and the Bicycle Parking Design Supplement:
(i) A complete tech table is required showing the calculations for
the minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the
number of spaces being provided.
(ii) All types of parking and loading spaces individually numbered,
dimensioned, and labelled on the drawings.
(iii) Section drawings showing elevations, vertical clearances for:
parking levels, loading bays, ramps, and security gates with
mechanical projections. Label minimum clearance for parking
levels on drawing, including overhead gate and mechanical
projections.
(iv) Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and drive aisles
at all breakpoints, loading bays, disability spaces, and at all
entrances. The slope and length of the ramped sections at all
breakpoints to be shown on the submitted drawings.
(v) Dimension all columns encroaching into parking stalls.
(vi) Dimension the drive aisle at the parkade entrance, the gates
and the manoeuver aisles.
(vii) Additional setbacks of parking spaces from walls to be
dimensioned on drawings.
(viii) Legal survey of the laneway showing the location of all poles
and guy wires.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 11
Landscape Design
31. Resolution of the conflict with the proposed development and the
row of offsite trees at the south edge;
Note to Applicant: It has been acknowledged that the offsite trees
are in conflict with the proposed building and a neighbor consent
letter is on file that provides consent for the removal of the trees.
The neighbor consent letter also declares that the trees will not be
replaced and a proposed re-landscape plan has been shared
between parties. At time of writing, staff is not aware of any city
approvals in place to review or approve the re-landscaping intent.
At time of development permit application, a tree removal permit
application must be made for # 3090 Kingsway, subject to review.
Staff is aware that issuing a tree removal permit may place the
owners of # 3090 Kingsway in contravention of their approved
landscape plan. Therefore, unless an approved re-landscape plan
can be presented, development permit issuance for # 3070
Kingsway is conditional upon a minor amendment application
(development permit) be in place and approvable for # 3090
Kingsway, to address the landscape changes. In the event the
conflict cannot be resolved, for whatever reason, design
development may be needed to retain the trees or accommodate
new landscaping.
32. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4 in. scale) through the common open space and the
lane planting;
Note to Applicant: Illustrate the slab design and location, the soil
profile, root ball and any associated landscaping. Illustrate and
dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside dimension), soil,
root ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and portions of the adjacent
building, such as residential units or amenity rooms.
33. Provision of plan details and documentation/calculations that
support achievement of storm water targets and integrated
rainwater management, including absorbent landscapes, soil
volumes and detention systems;
Note to Applicant: landscape related solutions and detention
systems should be shown on the plan. The consultant should
provide detailed calculations to describe how the various best
management practices contributed to the quality and quantity
targets.
34. Provision of a detailed “Tree Management Plan”;
35. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 12
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the development
permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building
permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering (604.871.6131)
to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board (604.257.8587) for
tree species selection and planting requirements. Provide a notation
on the plan as follows, "Final spacing, quantity and tree species to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
New trees must be of good standard, minimum 6cm caliper, and
installed with approved root barriers, tree guards and appropriate
soil. Root barriers shall be 8 feet long and 18 inches in. Planting
depth of root ball must be below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for
inspection after tree planting completion".
36. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan;
Note to Applicant: Consider “CPTED” principles and avoid any
lighting that can cause glare to residential uses.
Sustainability
37. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7,
2017), including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions
Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero
emissions standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or
Low Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low
Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
38. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings. Consultation
with the social housing operators and Park Board staff with

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 13
experience of the more specific CPTED risks in this area is
recommended, and should be included the response to this
condition.
Building Code
39. A fire department access route is required from the street to the
townhouses at the lane in accordance with the Vancouver Building
Bylaw (VBBL).
Note to Applicant: The provision of the access route may result in
potential loss in density.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to
the General Manager of Planning and Development, the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General Manager
of Engineering Services, the Director of Facility Design and Management
and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and
expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 1 and 2, Both Except Part in Reference Plan
2424, Block 16, District Lot 37, Plan 3952 to create a single
parcel.
2. Provision of a Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) for public pedestrian
use of an expanded sidewalk over the area of the site adjacent to
the north property line to give an overall distance of 5.5 m (18 ft.)
from the existing back of curb. The SRW is to be free of any
encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door-swings and benches
at-grade but the SRW agreement will accommodate underground
parking Level P1 and portions of building levels two to six within
the SRW area.
Note to Applicant: Feature paving proposed on Kingsway to be
removed from SRW.
3. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 521167M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
4. Provision of a shared use agreement to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services for the Class B loading

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 14
space between the retail and residential uses and which loading
space will be labelled as ‘Residential and Commercial Loading’.
Note to Applicant: The shared use agreement should specify
allocated time periods for shared use by residential vs.
commercial units.
5. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. Based on an estimate of the
development’s water demands, the water system should
be adequate to service the development. No upgrades
currently noted. Supply project details including confirmed
fire flow calculations based on the Fire Underwriter’s
Survey’s document, Water Supply for Public Fire
Protection, average day domestic water demands, and
peak hour domestic water demands (sealed by a qualified
Engineer) to confirm that water system upgrades are not
required. Should review of the confirmed project details
deem upgrading is necessary then arrangements to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services will be required
to secure payment for the upgrading. The developer is
responsible for 100 percent of any water system upgrading
that may be required.
Note to Applicant: The above analysis assumes the
proposed building will not utilize wood-frame construction.
Should the developer choose wood-frame construction, the
water analysis completed above may not be valid. Contact
Water Design for further details.
(ii) Provision of a fire hydrant fronting the development to be
installed.
(iii) The post development 10-year flow rate discharged to the
sewer shall be no greater than the 10-year
pre-development flow rate. The pre-development estimate
shall utilize the 2014 IDF Curves, whereas the post
development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF curves to
account for the climate change.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 15
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(v) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(vi) Provision of lane lighting on standalone poles with
underground ducts.
(vii) Provision of a new 1.53 m (5 ft.) exposed aggregate front
boulevard, 0.31 m (1 ft.) building strip, and light broom
finish saw cut concrete sidewalk between the front
boulevard and building strip.
(viii) Removal of existing driveway crossing on Kingsway and
provision of new curb and gutter.
(ix) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
6. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 16
Green Infrastructure
7. Provision of a detailed response toward the Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan (IRMP) requirements outlined in the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings.
8. Provide a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details how
the rainwater management system meets the IRMP requirements
for infiltration, cleaning and safe conveyance, prepared by a
subject matter expert (Engineer), subject to review.
(i) In this instance of a zero lot line design staff will consider:
a. The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
retention volume for runoff reduction instead of
infiltration volume;
b. Retention can be achieved through rainwater
reuse, in green roofs and planter boxes, or slow
release detention such as lined permeable
pavement systems.
c. The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
water quality volume to be treated;
(ii) Staff does not accept the principle that distinct site areas
that have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some
way compensate for those areas of the site that are
impervious, without the first and second 24mm of runoff
being directed towards these absorbent areas, and this
being clearly demonstrated. The subsequent safe
conveyance of rainfall surpassing 48mm in 24 hours will
also need to be demonstrated;
(iii) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from
impermeable surfaces into planted or other
storage/treatment areas.
(iv) Provide outline area/volume calculations to support the
overall rainwater management strategy. Include the area
measurement for all pervious/impervious areas and
demonstrate that each of the receiving infiltration/treatment
areas can accommodate the proposed runoff volumes
without being inundated;
(v) Detention tanks shall be considered only where alternative
approaches to rainwater retention prove unacceptable.
Where detention tanks are to be proposed they should be
considered for storing water for alternative uses on site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 17
(vi) Staff does not accept the inclusion of off-site areas in
calculations for infiltration and/or treatment.
(vii) Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will be
considered as rainwater retention/runoff reduction and
water quality practices.
a. Planters designed as flow-through planters can be
used to meet the treatment volume requirement;
b. Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout
planted areas and include shallow ponding depths
within the planted areas as part of the calculations.
Note: The building/public realm should be designed to show
leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building systems
including an integrative approach to rainwater management to
minimize potable water use and encourage the use of alternative
water sources in areas such as toilet flushing and irrigation.
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure on-going
operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater management
and green infrastructure systems.
Affordable Housing
9. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successor in function)
and the Director of Legal Services to enter into a Housing
Agreement securing all residential units as for-profit affordable
rental housing units pursuant to Section 3.1A of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law for the longer of 60 years or the
life of the building, and subject to the following additional
conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial
monthly rents for each rental unit, when the Housing
Agreement is entered into and again prior to development
permit issuance;
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each unit
type will be at or below the following proposed starting
rents subject to adjustment as contemplated by Section
3.1B(c) of the Vancouver Development Cost Levy-By-law:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 18
Unit 3070 Kingsway
Type Average Starting Rents
Studio units $1,469
1-bedroom $1,730
2-bedroom $2,505
3-bedroom $3,365
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager
of Arts Culture and Community Services (or successor in
function) and the Director of Legal Services, that reflects
the agreed initial monthly rents as of occupancy in order to
address potential changes in unit mix and/or sizes
between the rezoning and development permit issuance,
and to allow for the rents to be increased annually from the
time of the public hearing to initial occupancy, as per the
maximum increases authorized by Section 3.1B(c) of the
Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law.
(vii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts Culture and Community Services (or successor in
function) and the Director of Legal Services may in their
sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Section 219 Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be
entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
10. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Protection, City Engineer and Director of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 19
Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of
the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of
the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning
by-law, as approved by Council in principle and described in section (c) of
Appendix B, of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
3070 Kingsway”, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3070 Kingsway”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3070 Kingsway”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 20
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03251)
(Councillors De Genova, Jang, and Reimer absent for the vote)
3. REZONING: 119-133 West 41st Avenue
An application by DYS Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 119-133 West 41st Avenue from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit
development of a courtyard townhouse residential development with 20
market residential units. A height of 15.25 m (50 ft.) and a floor space ratio
(FSR) of 1.78 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the
speakers list.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:08 pm.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application, by DYS Architecture Inc. on behalf of Nexst Oakridge 2
Development Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 21
• 119 West 41st Avenue [PID 011-572-744; AMENDED LOT 15 (SEE
298807L), EXCEPT PART IN EXPLANATORY PLAN 5778, OF LOT 2
BLOCK 1003A DISTRICT LOT 526 PLAN 4381],
• 125 West 41st Avenue [PID 011-572-736; AMENDED LOT 13 (SEE
304281L), EXCEPT PART IN EXPLANATORY PLAN 5951, OF LOT 2
BLOCK 1003A DISTRICT LOT 526 PLAN 4381], and
• 133 West 41st Avenue [PID 007-930-461; LOT 12, EXCEPT THE SOUTH 10
FEET NOW ROAD, OF LOT 2 BLOCK 1003A, DISTRICT LOT 526, PLAN
4381]
all from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 1.78
and to increase the building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 15.25 m (50 ft.), to
permit the development of a courtyard townhouse residential building containing
a total of 20 market residential units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated June 26, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 119-133 West 41st
Avenue”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That, the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by DYS Architecture Inc. and received
September 29, 2017, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to the approval of Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve front yard condition on both 41st
Avenue and Woodstock Avenue by:
(i) Softening the transitions from the respective back
boulevards on both 41st Avenue and Woodstock Avenue
to the townhouse front patios through more robust
planting;
(ii) Enlarging the 41st Avenue townhouses’ patio depths for
better use;
(iii) Pushing the parkade’s roof slab at the site’s southeast
corner back at least 1 m (3.3 ft.) away from the east
property line, introducing planters along the patio’s east
edge to provide privacy screening, and reducing the patio’s
depth accordingly; and
(iv) Accommodating the Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) along
41st Avenue (see Engineering By-Law Enactment

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 22
Condition #3).
Note to Applicant: The above conditions are meant to
better respond to the Cambie Corridor Plan
recommendation to treat the yard spaces as an extension
of the wider public realm. With regards to providing the
SRW, ensure that the front steps, as well as the parkade
access stairs, do not encroach into the SRW. This may
entail shifting the location of some of the steps, porches
and wall planes on the ground floor.
2. Design development to improve the quality and amount of useable
outdoor space by creating a combined open area with seating
features between the Phase 1 and Phase 2 courtyards.
Note to Applicant: In lieu of indoor amenity spaces, an improved
outdoor area may suffice. This entails revisiting some of the
Phase 1 landscape, grading and parkade design.
3. Design development to further introduce variations between these
townhouses and those in Phase 1 by varying the ratio and location
of the various cladding materials and windows.
Note to Applicant: This is to better respond to the Cambie Corridor
Plan recommendation to express a strong unifying architectural
concept while providing some degree of variation.
4. Consideration to improve the parking structure accessibility by
providing access path(s) to and from it from all units.
Note to Applicant: Providing on-site access paths may require
redesign of the private patio spaces, the courtyards, and
potentially the ground-floor layout of some of the buildings.
5. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any
built features intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a
design rationale for the features noted. For more information, see
the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Housing
6. Design development to meet the requirements in the Family
Room: Housing Mix Policy for Rezoning Projects (2016) which
requires at least 10 percent of the total dwelling units be three-
bedroom units and at least 25 percent of the total dwelling units
must be two-bedroom units.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 23
Note to Applicant: The application currently exceeds the policy
requirements, but further design development to meet the
conditions of approval may result in a revision of the unit count
and mix. Ensure the Family Room policy requirements are met at
a minimum through the development permit stage.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Design development to respond to the principles of CPTED,
having particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape
8. Design development to the landscape treatment to increase the
volume of soil, tree canopy cover and planting on slab, as follows:
(i) Provision of trees in planters (minimum 1.25 m width) for
each private rooftop patio;
(ii) Lower the slab in the courtyard area below the planters, to
the greatest extent that is practical;
(iii) Provision of one medium to tall branched tree to be located
on private property in front of each unit along Woodstock
Avenue and 41st Avenue.
Note to Applicant: Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab
should be designed to maximize soil depths. This will require
integration of the landscape design and the structural plan. Soil
depths should exceed the BCLNA Landscape Standard. At the
perimeter of the building, the slab can be angled downward
(1 m across and 1.2 m down) to maximize contiguous soil
volumes.
9. Design development to the final grades along the west property
line to be compatible with a possible shared pathway with the
adjacent development proposal to the west.
10. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and public
realm.
11. Design development to the Integrated Rainwater Management
Strategy to explore opportunities for onsite rain water infiltration
and soil absorption, as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 24
(i) Maximize natural landscape management best practices;
(ii) Minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water
storage;
(iii) Increase the amount of planting on the rooftop areas;
(iv) Provide a linear infiltration bio-swale along the north and
south property lines;
(v) Use permeable paving;
(vi) Employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever
possible);
(vii) Use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage
areas; and
(viii) Maximize opportunities to infiltrate water to the soil areas
outside the underground parkade (i.e. lane setback).
Note to Applicant: Refer to the City of Vancouver Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan (I.R.M.P), Vol.1 & 2 for further
information. A consulting engineer (subject matter expert) will
need to be engaged and early phase soil analysis will be needed.
Further comments may be outstanding at the development permit
stage.
12. Provision of plans, plan details, and documentation/calculations
that support integrated rainwater management, including
absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and detention systems, as
follows:
(i) A detailed storm water report with calculations describing
how the various best management practices contribute to
the quality and quantity targets;
(ii) A separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic
grading indicating intent to direct rainwater to infiltration
zones; and
(iii) An overlay plan that shows amount and ratio of vegetative
cover (green roof), permeable/impermeable hardscaping,
and notations describing the storage location of rainwater
falling on each surface, including roofs.
13. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at a 1/8 in.:1 ft. scale,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 25
minimum. The plant list should include the common and botanical
name, size and quantity of all existing/proposed plant material.
Plant material should be clearly illustrated on the Plan and keyed
to the Plant List. The landscape plan should include the public
realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed street
trees, adjoining walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista
transformers, and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles,
fire hydrants.
14. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross-sections
(minimum 1/4 in. scale) through common open spaces,
semi-private patio areas and the public realm.
Note to Applicant: The sections should illustrate the slab design
and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy and any
associated landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas,
illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside
dimension), soil, root ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and
portions of the adjacent building, such as residential units or
amenity rooms.
15. Provision of a Tree Management Plan.
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management
plan become the primary document for tree removal/ protection
related matters. Attach a large scale tree management sheet
(same size sheet as architectural sheets) to the landscape plan
submission.
16. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees are to be shown on the
development permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of
the building permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604.871.6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604.257.8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final
spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall
be 8 feet long and 18 inches in. Planting depth of root ball must be
below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree
planting completion".
17. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose
bibs for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation connection
points and hose bib symbols accurately, and provide a highlighted

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 26
note to verify the irrigation is to be designed and constructed.
Hose bibs are requested to encourage patio gardening and hand
watering on private patio and amenity decks.
18. Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical landscape
structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis).
19. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Consider CPTED principles and avoid any
lighting that can cause glare to residential uses
Sustainability
20. All new buildings in the development will meet requirements of the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezoning (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings
(i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions
standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions
Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Engineering
21. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
22. Provision of any gas service is to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
23. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show
containers and toters on plans for recycling and garbage needs
and refer to the Engineering garbage and recycling storage facility
design supplement for recommended dimensions and quantities
of bins.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 27
Note: pick up operations should not rely on bins being stored on
the street or lane for pick up, bins are to be returned to storage
areas immediately after emptying.
24. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
25. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
26. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to engineering for
review.
Note to Applicant: Add note to landscape plans “Installation of
parking regulatory signage on West 41st Avenue and West
Woodstock Avenue adjacent the site to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services”.
27. Provision of standard crossing design, a crossing application is
required.
28. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement and
Bicycle Design supplement to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services as follows:
(i) Provide section drawings showing elevations and minimum
vertical clearances for parking levels, ramps, and security
gates. These clearances must consider mechanical
projections and built obstructions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 28
(ii) Areas of minimum vertical clearances are to be labelled on
the parking level.
Note to Applicant: 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required
for disability spaces.
(iii) Design elevations on both sides of the ramp and drive
aisles at all breakpoints, and at all entrances. The slope
and length of the ramped sections at all breakpoints to be
shown on the submitted drawings. Slope and cross-fall
within the parking levels is to be shown on the submitted
drawings.
(iv) Dimension the drive aisle width on parking level.
(v) Provide Class A and Class B bicycle spaces as per the
Vancouver Parking By-Law.
(vi) On-site access from West Woodstock Avenue to all of the
units is required to facilitate move-in/move-out
requirements.
Note to Applicant: Parking will not be available on
West 41st Avenue as future transportation installations will
need to be accommodated at the curbside.
29. Green Infrastructure submission requirements for the
development permit stage must include the following:
(i) Pre-development site plan showing orthophoto and
existing drainage areas and appurtenances;
(ii) A proposed site plan that delineates drainage areas,
including the area measurements for pervious/impervious
areas, and identifies appropriately sized green
infrastructure practices for each of those areas;
(iii) Hydrologic and hydraulic analysis prepared by a qualified
professional in the area of rainwater management showing
how the site will meet the requirements of the Policy;
(iv) If lower tier green infrastructure options are chosen, then
justifications must be included in the RMP report;
(v) Details on how the targets set out above will be achieved
through the development phases and once all
development phases are complete;
(vi) Include supplementary documentation for any proprietary
products that clearly demonstrates how they contribute to
the targets;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 29
(vii) The plan and report must demonstrate that access has
been provided for maintaining the rainwater management
system, such as providing truck access for pumping out
sediment traps;
(viii) Maintenance and operation guide for the rainwater
management system that will be provided to the eventual
owner or party responsible for maintenance.
Note to Applicant: The building/public realm should be
designed to show leadership in the City’s commitment to
Green Building systems including an integrative approach
to rainwater management to minimize potable water use
and encourage the use of alternative water sources in
areas such as toilet flushing and irrigation.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Sustainability and Urban Design, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Arrangements are to be made to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services for the consolidation of Lot 12, Except the South 10 Feet
Now Road, Amended Lot 13 (See 304281L), Except Part in
Explanatory Plan 5951, and Amended Lot 15 (See 298807L),
Except Part in Explanatory Plan 5778; all of Lot 2, Block 1003A,
District Lot 526, Plan 4381 to create a single parcel.
Note to Applicant: Restrictive Covenant R63068 (See 111681L)
on the title of Lot 12 requires the approval of the Canadian Pacific
Railway Company for any proposed development. The applicant
may wish to have this charge released from title; however, as this
Restrictive Covenant is not in favour of the City, its release is not a
condition of redevelopment of this site.
2. If the proposed shared vehicle access between the two phases is
supported, then the provision of a knockout panel (as indicated on
the applicant’s drawings) at the appropriate location and
arrangements (legal agreements, including without limitation
easements, Section 219 Covenants, etc.) to secure continued
access to underground parking on each site (as well as any other
cross boundary issues), will be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 30
3. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory Right of
Way (SRW) on West 41st Avenue for public pedestrian use to
achieve a 0.61 m (2 ft.) distance measured from the back of the
property line for public realm. The SRW will be free of any
encumbrance such as structure, stairs, planter walls, door swing,
benches, chairs and tables, and bicycle parking at grade.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “Services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services are
provided. No development permit for the site will be issued until
the security for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. Based on an estimate of the
development’s water demands, the water system should
be adequate to service the development. No upgrades
currently noted.
a. Supply project details including confirmed fire flow
calculations based on the Fire Underwriter’s
Survey’s document, Water Supply for Public Fire
Protection, the sprinkler demands based on NFPA
13/14, average day domestic water demands, and
peak hour domestic water demands (sealed by a
qualified Engineer) to confirm that water system
upgrades are not required.
b. Should review of the confirmed project details
deem upgrading be necessary, then arrangements
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100
percent of any water system upgrading that may be
required.
Note to Applicant: The above analysis assumes the
proposed building will not utilize wood-frame construction.
Should the developer choose wood-frame construction, the
water analysis completed above may not be valid. Contact
Water Design for any further details.
(ii) Design and construct 85 m of 600 mm diameter storm
sewer and 200 mm diameter sanitary sewer on West 41st
Avenue from the man hole fronting 151 West 41st Avenue
to Manitoba Street.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 31
The design must account for re-routing of sewer mains to
eliminate existing easements. Contact the Sewer Design
Department for more information prior to commencing the
design.
The lengths and diameters of these sanitary and storm
sewer improvements are approximate and subject to a
detailed design by the Developer’s Engineer.
(iii) The post-development 5-year flow rate discharged to the
storm sewer shall be no greater than the 5-year
pre-development flow rate. The pre-development estimate
shall utilize the 2014 IDF curves, whereas the
post-development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF
curves to account for climate change.
The Developer’s Engineer is to submit design brief,
calculations and/or model, and design drawings to the City.
Submittals are to be reviewed and accepted by City
Engineer.
The sewer servicing plan for this area is under
development. The developer should to contact the City
Engineer prior to commencing design or analysis of sewer
system as the upgrade requirement may be modified
based on the servicing plan (the requirement will be
approximately equivalent to the above condition).
This development is to be serviced to the new storm and
sanitary sewers on West 41st Avenue.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(v) Provision of 100 percent of funding for street re-
construction and all necessary adjustments of existing
infrastructure on West 41st Avenue adjacent to the site to
the satisfaction of General Manager of Engineering
Services.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 32
Note to Applicant: The City will provide a geometric design.
(vi) Provision of a 1.83 m (6 ft.) light broom finish saw cut
concrete sidewalk on West Woodstock Avenue frontage.
Note to Applicant: Landscape drawings specify a 6 ft.
sidewalk on West Woodstock Avenue, but the sidewalk
shown on drawing scales to 5 ft.
(vii) Removal of existing driveway crossings on West
Woodstock Avenue and provision of new curb and gutter.
(viii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site on
both West Woodstock Avenue and West 41st Avenue to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
Note to Applicant: Existing wood pole in lane may conflict
with ramp access. Arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the
appropriate public utility companies for pole relocation may
be required.
(ix) Provision of a contribution of $15,000 towards signal
modifications (payable at Development Permit issuance),
LED lighting and countdown timers at Columbia Street and
West 41st Avenue.
5. The Developer is required to submit a groundwater management
plan to be reviewed and accepted by City Engineer. The plan shall
include confirmation that no groundwater will be discharged to the
sewer system.
6. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that, in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro, an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 33
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
7. Provision of a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details
how the rainwater management system meets the IRMP
requirements for retention, cleaning and safe conveyance,
prepared by a subject matter expert (Engineer) and signed/sealed
by same, subject to review and acceptance by the City Engineer.
The applicant should take into account the following:
(i) Runoff from the first 24 mm of rainfall from all areas,
including rooftops, paved areas, and landscape must be
retained and treated on site (landscapes over native
subsoils with appropriately sized topsoil meets the 24 mm
retention requirement);
(ii) Staff will not accept the principle that distinct site areas that
have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way
compensate for those areas of the site that are impervious,
without the runoff from the impervious areas being directed
towards these absorbent areas, and this being clearly
demonstrated.
a. Where areas of growing medium do not have runoff
directed on to them (from above) from adjacent
impervious surfaces, they shall be assumed to be
receiving/treating/storing only the rainfall that falls
directly on to them; and
b. IRMP targets are to be achieved on site i.e. without
using street right-of-way.
(iii) The applicant must prioritize methods of retention
according to the three tiers below. Justification must be
provided for using a lower tier retention option. The tiers
are as follows:
a. 1st tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Rainwater Harvesting for Reuse, Green Roofs, and
Infiltration;
b. 2nd tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Retention within non-infiltrating landscapes,
including absorbent landscape on slab, closed
bottom planter boxes, and lined bio retention
systems;
c. 3rd tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Detention storage with treatment and slow release.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 34
(iv) Surfaces designed for motor vehicle use and other high
pollutant generating surfaces require an additional 24 mm
of treatment beyond the first 24 mm retained (for a total of
48 mm treated).
(v) Water quality volume (24 mm for low pollutant generating
surfaces like roofs and 48 mm for high pollutant generating
surfaces like driveways) that leaves the site must be
treated to a standard of 80 percent TSS removal by mass
by using either individual BMPs that meet the standard or
treatment trains of BMPs that, when combined, meet the
standard. For proprietary treatment devices:
a. Provide product information for all treatment
practices; and
b. Products need to be certified by TAPE - The
Technology Assessment Protocol – Ecology
Program, Washington State Department of
Ecology’s process for evaluating and approving
emerging rainwater treatment BMPs. The applicant
may propose other technologies but must provide
supporting information that shows the technology
meets the standard.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required to
ensure on-going operations of certain rainwater storage,
rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
Sustainability
8. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Environmental Contamination
9. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 35
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services, and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been issued to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
10. Pay to the City the cash Community Amenity Contribution of
$977,295 which the applicant has offered to the City and which is
to be allocated to support the delivery of the Cambie Corridor
Public Benefits Strategy. Payment is to be made prior to
enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council Approval the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated June 26, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 119-133 West 41st Avenue”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 36
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03252)
(Councillor Reimer absent for the vote)
4. REZONING: 1800-1898 Main Street
An application by Francl Architecture and Cressey Main Holdings Ltd. was considered as
follows:
Summary: To rezone 1800-1898 Main Street from IC-2 (Industrial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to permit an 11-storey mixed-use
building consisting of commercial use at grade and 131 secured for-profit
affordable rental housing units. A height of 32.6 m (107 ft.) and a floor space
ratio (FSR) of 5.02 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list:
• One letter in support of the application, and
• two letters opposed to the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:13 pm.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Engineering Services noted the language included in the proposed the draft parking
by-law unintentionally restricts the provision of shared vehicles and shared vehicle parking

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 37
spaces, and unnecessarily restricts the loading spaces to be provided at the development. Staff
therefore recommended that part D of the summary and recommendation not be moved.
Applicant Comments
Jason Turcotte, Cressey Development Group, provided an overview of the application.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:12 pm
Council Decision
The motion below contains the change suggested by Engineering Staff at the Public Hearing
(that recommendation D in the Summary and Recommendation not be moved).
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Francl Architecture, on behalf of Cressey Main Holdings
Ltd., to rezone: 1800 Main Street [PID 009-153-373; Lot B Block 15 District Lot
200A Plan 11115] and 1880-1898 Main Street [PID 015-051-943; Lot A
(Explanatory Plan 5193) Block 15 District Lot 200A Plan 934], from IC-2
(Industrial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase
the floor space ratio (FSR) from 3.00 to 5.02 and building height from 18.3 m (60
ft.) to 32.6 m (107 ft.) to permit an 11-storey mixed-use building consisting of
commercial use at grade and 131 secured for-profit affordable rental housing
units generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
June 26, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1800-1898 Main Street”, be approved
subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Francl Architecture and received
February 15, 2017, subject to the following conditions, provided that the
Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 38
Urban Design
1. Design development to the floor elevations of the commercial-
retail units to be no more than 0.75 m (2.5 ft.) different from the
adjacent sidewalk grade, against the Main Street property line.
2. Design development to confirm that the proposed exterior will be
clad with high-quality materials.
3. Design development to the proposed elevations that would better
reflect the specific orientation of each façade, and to reduce solar
gain.
4. Provision of a minimum 2.4 m (8 ft.) building setback from the
3rd Avenue property line, in order to provide enhanced public open
space along this sidewalk.
5. The proposed unit mix, providing 26 percent studio units, 39
percent one-bedroom units, 27 percent two-bedroom units and 8
percent three-bedroom units, is to be included in the development
permit drawings. The two- and three-bedroom units account for 35
percent of the overall units.
Note to applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 35 percent of the dwelling units designed to be
suitable for families with children.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Review
7. Design development to better articulate and expand the
programming of common amenity space on Level 3 to provide
more opportunities for social interaction.
Note to applicant: This should include additional, more accessible
urban agriculture, additional opportunities for social interaction,
such as additional benches and seat walls for passive seating and
gathering. Urban agriculture plots should follow the City’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and include
infrastructure required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc.
Garden plots should be wheelchair accessible.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 39
8. Design development to provide high quality, creative and natural
materials in landscaped areas, especially in the children’s play
area.
9. Design development to improve sustainability by the provision of
an extensive green roof on the flat rooftop.
10. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
11. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted.
The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials
(with common and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities),
paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other
landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List
that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan
should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should match the
architectural site plan.
12. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2"=1'-0" scale to illustrate
typical proposed landscape elements including planters on
structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details should show dimensioned
rootballs to confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well
into the future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standard and be
minimum 3 ft. for trees and 2 ft. for shrubs.
13. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for all
planted areas.
14. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
Sustainability
15. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of LEED®
Gold rating, with 1 point for water efficiency and stormwater
management and a 22 percent reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to applicant: Provide an updated LEED® checklist and
sustainable design strategy at the time of Development Permit
application outlining how the proposed points will be achieved, a
letter of confirmation from an accredited professional confirming

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 40
that the building has been designed to meet these goals, and a
receipt including registration number from the CaGBC. The
checklist and strategy should be incorporated into the drawing set.
Application for certification of the project will also be required
under the policy.
Housing
16. The building is to comply with the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity
room with kitchenette and accessible washroom.
17. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
secured market rental housing is being provided as part of the City
of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and location to be
approved by the City.
Engineering
18. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal
or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
19. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site.
Note to applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
20. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
21. Clarify residential and commercial garbage storage and pick-up
space. Please show containers and toters on plans for recycling
and garbage needs and refer to the Engineering garbage and
recycling storage facility design supplement for recommended
dimensions and quantities of bins.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 41
Note: Pick up operations should not rely on bins being stored on
the street or lane for pick up, an on-site bin staging area is to be
provided and bins are to be returned to storage areas immediately
after emptying.
Note: The loading space may be suitable for this purpose.
22. Confirmation from the Vancouver Park Board that they are in
agreement with the proposed street tree removals around the site.
23. Delete benches shown around the proposed street trees on the
3rd Avenue frontage and show standard treatments consistent
with the area public realm plan.
24. The landscape plan is to be noted as “NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of eight (8) weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.
25. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes, which conform to the Mount Pleasant Community
Plan and Public Realm Plan and include all of the off-site
improvements sought for this rezoning, where a design or detail is
not available please make note of the improvement on the site
and/or landscape plans. Please submit a copy of the updated plan
to Engineering Services for review.
26. A crossing application is required. Please confirm parking and
access design is accepted before the crossing application is
submitted so the crossing design can match the required
parking/loading opening to the building.
27. Design development to provide wide continuous weather
protection awnings or canopies on Main Street and 2nd Avenue.
Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over
public property.
Note to applicant: Canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the drip
line is achieving maximum and continuous weather protection for
the sidewalk users.
28. Trees on 2nd Avenue are to be fully on private property and street
trees adjacent the curb are to be provided on either side of the
finalized bus stop location where space permits. A drawing of the
bus stop location will be provided by the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 42
29. Provision of an improved plan showing the Class B bicycle spaces
on private property, beyond the Statutory Right of Way (SRW).
Note to applicant: Locate the bike rack in close proximity to the
lobby entrance with ‘stairs free’ access. Ensure that bicycles
locked to the rack do not encroach over the property line or into
the SRW. Page 23 shows Class B bicycle spaces on City ROW
and within the SRW.
Should bike racks be desired for placement on public property,
please make a separate application to Engineering, Street
Activities branch. Please contact Shannon Blackwood at
604-873-6339.
30. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.
31. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to Engineering Services
for review.
32. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
33. All Class A bicycle spaces must be located on the P1 parking level
or at grade.
34. Noting the enactment condition is to remove/underground or
eliminate all of the existing wood poles from adjacent the site;
should this prove not possible then please ensure any remaining
pole is accurately located to confirm there is no conflict with
proposed access points to the site.
35. Design development to comply with the Parking and Loading
Design Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services (GMES). The following items are required:
(i) Provision of Class B loading to the satisfaction of the
GMES.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 43
Note to applicant: The following is required:
a) Provision of improved on-site maneuvering for the
Class B loadings spaces. The back-in maneuvering
from Lorne Street proposed in the Loading Review
dated January 11, 2017 is not supported as Lorne
Street will remain open to traffic. Consider a wider
maneuvering aisle, wider loading stalls, larger
loading throats, and a wider O/H gate to achieve this.
Provide updated turning swaths to confirm.
b) Provision of revised ramp slope to accommodate
on-site maneuvering for the Class B loading spaces.
Maneuvering from a 15 percent ramp slope is not
supported.
c) Provision of 3.8 m (12.5 ft.) of vertical clearance for
the Class B loading spaces. Looking at the elevations
on drawings 5 and 6, less than 3 m (10 ft.) is being
provided for one of the Class B spaces. A section
drawing is required showing elevations, and the
minimum vertical clearances should be noted on
plans.
d) Provision of a signal warning system and improved
visibility to reduce conflicts between vehicles on the
parking ramp and vehicles accessing the Class B
loading spaces at the top of the ramp. A sign and
warning light on the outside of the building to indicate
when both Class B spaces are occupied is also
required.
e) Provide an updated Loading Review that is signed
and sealed by a qualified transportation engineer.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, additional elevations within the
parking levels, both sides of the loading bay, and at all
entrances.
(iii) Provision of the minimum vertical clearance for the main
ramp and security gates.
Note to applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical
clearance is required for access and maneuvering to all
disability spaces.
(iv) Modification of the parking ramp design as the slope must
not exceed 12.5 percent after the first 20 ft. from the
property line. 15 percent slopes may be acceptable if a 7.5

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 44
percent to 10 percent transition ramp is provided at the
bottom for at least 4 m in length. Using the design
elevations shown, the inside radius of the ramp calculates
to 23 percent and exceeds the 15 percent indicated. A
further reduced slope may be required to accommodate
the maneuvering for the loading.
(v) Dimension and label all stalls. Provide additional parking
stall width for stalls adjacent to walls or stalls with columns
set back more than 4 ft. from the end of the stall.
(vi) Locate column placements to comply with the
requirements of the Engineering Parking and Loading
Design Supplement as none are shown. Dimension all
columns encroaching into parking stalls.
(vii) Provision of increased width through the curved section of
the parking ramp to enable two vehicles to pass
unobstructed - a ramp width of 23’-6” would achieve this.
(viii) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
36. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver
Parking By-Law.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
37. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City and the City-designated NES Utility
Provider, shall be provided prior to the issuance of any
development permit, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
38. The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system shall be
designed to be easily connectable and compatible with
Neighbourhood Energy to supply all heating and domestic hot
water requirements. Design provisions related to Neighbourhood
Energy compatibility must be to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to applicant: The applicant shall refer to the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards – Design Guidelines for general
design requirements related to Neighbourhood Energy
compatibility at the building scale. The applicant is also
encouraged to work closely with City staff during mechanical
design to ensure compatibility with a neighbourhood-scale system.
As a pre-condition to building permit, a declaration signed by the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 45
registered professional of record certifying that the Neighbourhood
Energy connectivity requirements have been satisfied will be
required.
39. Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air shall be
provided by hydronic systems without electric resistance heat or
distributed heat generating equipment (including but not limited to
gas fired make-up air heaters, heat producing fireplaces,
distributed heat pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
40. Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to be
utilized for an energy transfer station connecting the building(s) to
the City-designated Neighbourhood Energy System (NES), as
outlined in the Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards –
Design Guidelines.
Note to applicant: The site would be serviced by the
City-designated NES from 6th Avenue.
41. Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical heating
system at the building permit stage must be to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, the General Manager of Arts,
Culture, and Community Services, and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lot A (Explanatory Plan 5193), Plan 934, and Lot
B, Plan 11115, Both of Block 15, DL 200A to create a single
parcel.
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreements 355348M and
355398M (commercial crossings) prior to building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory Right of
Way (SRW) on the Main Street and 2nd Avenue frontages of the
site to achieve a 5.5 m (18 ft.) sidewalk from the back of the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 46
existing City curb to the building face. A legal survey of the
existing dimension from the back of the City curb is required to
determine the final setback/SRW dimension. The SRW will be free
of any encumbrances such as structure, stairs, door swing,
landscape and bicycle parking at grade. The SRW agreement will
accommodate any portion of the below grade parking on levels P1
to P3, and portions of the building at levels 2 to 11 and the roof
within the SRW area.
4. Provision of a building setback and surface Statutory Right of Way
(SRW) on the 3rd Avenue frontage of the site to achieve a 2.4 m
(8 ft.) public plaza from the south property line for public/
pedestrian use. The SRW will be free of any encumbrances such
as structure, stairs, door swing, landscape and bicycle parking at
grade. The SRW agreement will accommodate any portion of the
below grade parking on levels P1 to P3, and portions of the
building at levels 2 to 11 and the roof within the SRW area.
5. Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure the
provision, operation and maintenance of three (3) Shared
Vehicle(s) and the provision and maintenance of three (3) Shared
Vehicle Parking Space(s) for use exclusively by such Shared
Vehicle(s), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services, including the following:
(i) Provide three (3) Shared Vehicle(s) to the development for
a minimum period of three years;
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicle(s);
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space(s)
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles;
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space(s);
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle;
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the Director
of Legal Services may require and including a covenant
under section 219 of the Land Title Act of British Columbia,
a statutory right of way, or other instrument satisfactory to
the Director of Legal Services, securing these conditions;
and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 47
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a Shared Vehicle
Organization indicating their willingness to supply Shared
Vehicles on the site at building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Shared Vehicle Parking Spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9 m and noted on plans.
6. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided. The agreements shall include, but
not be limited to, the following provisions, to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services:
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. The adjacent water main is sized at 200 mm.
Should the project require a greater service demand then
upgrading will likely be required; should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for
100 percent of any water system upgrading that may be
required.
(ii) Guelph Park's as-builts indicate the park is serviced from a
main connected to the sanitary manhole on Prince Edward
Street and L/S of 6th Avenue. Elimination of the park's
runoff from the sanitary system would reduce the flow into
the sanitary system and negate a larger system upgrade
downstream of the development site. Provision of a new
connection from Guelph Park into the storm system is
required.
(iii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan
that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Watercourse By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
a) Runoff from the first 24 mm of rainfall from all
areas, including rooftops, paved areas, and
landscape must be retained and treated on site

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 48
(landscapes over native subsoils with appropriately
sized topsoil meets the 24 mm retention
requirement);
b) Surfaces designed for motor vehicle use and other
high pollutant generating surfaces require an
additional 24 mm of treatment beyond the first
24 mm retained (for a total of 48 mm treated);
c) Water quality volume (24 mm for low pollutant
generating surfaces like roofs and 48 mm for high
pollutant generating surfaces like driveways) that
leaves the site must be treated to a standard of 80
percent TSS removal by mass by using either
individual BMPs that meet the standard or
treatment trains of BMPs that, when combined,
meet the standard; and
d) The post-development 10-year flow rate discharged
to the storm sewer shall be no greater than the
10-year pre-development flow rate. The
pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curves, whereas the post-development estimate
shall utilize the 2100 IDF curves to account for
climate change.
Note: Legal agreements may be required to ensure
ongoing operations of certain stormwater storage,
rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
(iv) Provision of elimination/undergrounding of the existing
wood poles and overhead utilities from adjacent the site.
Confirmation from all affected utilities and any City of
Vancouver utility that use the poles is required. Any
resulting need for switches, kiosks, cabinets are to be
provided for on site.
(v) Provision of new concrete curb and gutter, pavement to
typical road widths, concrete sidewalk, street trees, new or
upgraded street lighting on Lorne Street and on
3rd Avenue adjacent the site, including relocation of all
existing infrastructure to accommodate the new roads is
required. All in keeping with Mount Pleasant Public Realm
guidelines.
(vi) Provision of new or upgraded street lighting on the Main
Street and 2nd Avenue frontages of the site and a lighting
study to determine the adequacy of the existing lighting
and design as required.
(vii) Provision of a minimum 1.22 m (4’-0”) front boulevard and
2.43 m (8’-0”) sidewalk on Lorne Street.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 49
(viii) Provision of a new concrete bus slab in the curb lane on
2nd Avenue adjacent the site, the relocation of bus stop
59762 (EB E 2nd Av FS Main St) and provision of weather
protected seating on 2nd Avenue adjacent to the bus stop.
(ix) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note: As-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the
installed number of conduits, their final locations and
depths.
(x) Provision of a $75,000 cash contribution for the future
installation of a pedestrian signal at 3rd Avenue and
Main Street.
7. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Green Infrastructure
8. Provision of a detailed response toward the Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan (IRMP) requirements outlined in the “Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings”.
9. Provide a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details how
the rainwater management system meets the IRMP requirements
for retention, infiltration, cleaning and safe conveyance, prepared

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 50
by a subject matter expert (Engineer), subject to review, which will
include the following:
(i) In this instance of a zero lot line design staff will consider:
a) The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
retention volume for runoff reduction instead of
infiltration volume;
b) Retention can be achieved through rainwater
reuse, in green roofs and planter boxes, or slow
release detention such as lined permeable
pavement systems; and
c) The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
water quality volume to be treated.
(ii) Staff does not accept the principle that distinct site areas
that have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some
way compensate for those areas of the site that are
impervious, without the first and second 24 mm of runoff
being directed towards these absorbent areas, and this
being clearly demonstrated. The subsequent safe
conveyance of rainfall surpassing 48 mm in 24 hours will
also need to be demonstrated.
(iii) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from
impermeable surfaces into planted or other
storage/treatment areas.
(iv) Provide outline area/volume calculations to support the
overall rainwater management strategy. Include the area
measurement for all pervious/impervious areas and
demonstrate that each of the receiving infiltration/treatment
areas can accommodate the proposed runoff volumes
without being inundated.
(v) Detention tanks shall be considered only where alternative
approaches to rainwater retention prove unacceptable.
Where detention tanks are to be proposed they should be
considered for storing water for alternative uses on site.
(vi) Staff does not accept the inclusion of off-site areas in
calculations for infiltration and/or treatment.
(vii) Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will be
considered as rainwater retention/runoff reduction and
water quality practices.
a) Planters designed as flow-through planters can be
used to meet the treatment volume requirement.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 51
b) Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout
planted areas and include shallow ponding depths
within the planted areas as part of the calculations.
(viii) The building/public realm should be designed to show
leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building
systems including an integrative approach to rainwater
management to minimize potable water use and
encourage the use of alternative water sources in areas
such as toilet flushing and irrigation.
Note: The applicant will enter into such legal agreements with the
City, on the terms and conditions acceptable to the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services to ensure ongoing operations of certain stormwater
storage, rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
10. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary for connection to a City-designated
Neighbourhood Energy System (NES), which may include but are
not limited to agreements which:
(i) Require buildings within the development to connect to the
City-designated Neighbourhood Energy System at such
time that a system becomes available;
(ii) Grant the operator of the City-designated NES access to
the building(s) mechanical system and thermal energy
system-related infrastructure within the development for
the purpose of enabling NES connection and operation, on
such terms and conditions as may be reasonably required
by the applicant; and
(iii) Grant use of and access to suitable space required for the
purposes of an energy transfer station, to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Notes to applicant:
• The development will be required to connect to a NES prior to
occupancy if the General Manager of Engineering Services
deems a connection is available and appropriate at the time of
building permit issuance. If connection to a NES is not
available or appropriate, a deferred services agreement or
similar agreement will be required.
• If the development is required by the General Manager of
Engineering Services to connect to an NES, the Owner will be
prohibited from entering into any third party energy supply

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 52
contract for thermal energy services, other than conventional
electricity and natural gas supply, unless otherwise approved
by the General Manager of Engineering Services.
• Design shall provide suitable space for the installation of NES
equipment with adequate provisions for connection to outside
NES distribution piping and communications conduit. District
energy equipment may include, but is not limited to, an energy
plant sized for neighbourhood service, energy transfer
stations, heat recovery equipment, and/or boiler equipment. At
the building permit stage, the applicant will be required to
submit final detailed drawings, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer where necessary, for review by
Engineering Services to confirm final room dimensions and
technical information.
Housing
11. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement and Section 219
Covenant securing all residential units as for-profit affordable
rental housing units for the longer of 60 years and life of the
building, and including the following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating agreed initial monthly
rents for each rental unit when the Housing Agreement is
entered into, and again prior to development permit
issuance;
(v) That the average starting monthly rents for a total of 13
Moderate Income Rental Housing Units of the following
unit types be at or below the following rates, applicable at
the time of initial occupancy:
Unit Total Targeted Starting
Type Units Rents
Studio 4 $950
1 bedroom 5 $1,200
2 bedroom 4 $1,600
as set out in section 2a of the Moderate Income Rental
Housing Pilot Program, and rent increases will be capped
at the Residential Tenancy Act maximum annual allowable

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 53
increase, as published by the Province of British Columbia,
regardless of change in occupancy.
Note to applicant: A rent roll indicating the agreed
maximum average initial monthly rents for the units
secured at moderate income rates will be required prior to
development permit issuance, and again prior to issuance
of an occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the
Director of Legal Services;
(vi) The applicant will verify eligibility of new tenants for the
units secured at moderate income rates.
(a) For new tenants, annual household income cannot
exceed four (4) times the annual rent for the unit
(i.e. at least 25 percent of household income is
spent on rent).
(b) There should be at least one occupant per
bedroom in each moderate income unit;
(vii) The applicant will verify the ongoing eligibility of existing
tenants in the units secured at moderate income rates
every five (5) years after initial occupancy.
(a) For such tenants, annual household income cannot
exceed five (5) times the annual rent for the unit
(i.e. at least 20 percent of household income is
spent on rent).
(b) There should be at least one occupant per bedroom
in each moderate income unit;
(viii) On an annual basis, or at the request of the City, the
applicant will report to the City of Vancouver on the
operation of the Moderate Income Rental Housing Units
which will ensure that the City can confirm that the units
are being operated as agreed, and will include a rent roll
for the moderate income units, and a summary of the
results of eligibility testing for all units;
(ix) That the average initial starting monthly rents for a total of
118 for-profit affordable rental housing units of the
following unit types will be at or below the following
proposed starting rents, subject to adjustment as
contemplated by Section 3.1B(c) of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy-By-law:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 54
Unit Type Proposed Average Starting Rents
Studio $1,496
1 bedroom $1,730
2 bedroom $2,505
3 bedroom $3,365
(x) That a final rent roll for all units be provided, prior to
issuance of an occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services
and the Director of Legal Services, that reflects the agreed
initial monthly rents as of occupancy in order to address
potential changes in unit mix and/or sizes between the
rezoning and development permit issuance, and to allow
for the rents in the for-profit affordable rental housing units
to be increased annually from the time of the public
hearing to initial occupancy, as per the maximum
increases authorized by Section 3.1B(c) of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law. Following occupancy, the
rent increases for the Moderate Income Rental Housing
Units be capped at the Residential Tenancy Act maximum
annual allowable increase, as published by the Province of
British Columbia, regardless of change in occupancy; and
(xi) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to applicant: This condition will be secured by both a Section
219 Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be entered into by the
City, by by-law, enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
12. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 55
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been issued to the City.
Note to applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law,
as approved in principle by Council and described in described in section (c) of
Appendix B, of the Policy Report dated June 26, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1800-1898 Main Street”, subject to such terms and conditions as may be
required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1800-1898 Main Street”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1800-1898 Main Street”.
E. THAT recommendations A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 56
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03253)
5. REZONING: 1068-1090 Burnaby Street and 1318 Thurlow Street
An application by Strand Development in partnership with Intracorp Projects Ltd. was
considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1068-1090 Burnaby Street and 1318 Thurlow Street from RM-5A
(Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to
permit the development of a 30-storey residential building with 39 social
housing units and 82 market strata units. A height of 88.66 metres (291 feet)
and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 9.01 are proposed.
Council also had before it a memo dated July 23, 2018, from the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability which brought forward additional information about the
application, and recommended a replacement Urban Design Condition of Approval to address
public concerns related to separated common areas for market and social housing, as follows:
THAT the Urban Design Condition of Approval (b)2 in the Summary and
Recommendation of the Public Hearing agenda be replaced with the following:
2. Design development to explore improving common outdoor spaces for
social and market housing with the goal of promoting inclusiveness and
creating improved, larger contiguous outdoor amenities shared by all
residents, and provide such legal agreements as are necessary to enable
sharing, as follows:
(i) Combine children’s play areas for social and market housing to
create an improved and larger contiguous amenity that may be
accessed by all residents (i.e. from market and social housing)
and is commensurate in size with the number of family units.
Additionally, provide weather protected seating adjacent to the
children’s play area to promote an outdoor space for parental
supervision. Consider locating the children’s play area in the south
yard.
(ii) Seek opportunities to provide direct access and clear sightlines to
the children’s play area from a multi-purpose amenity room that
serves as the social housing common indoor space (consider

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 57
grade implications in ultimate location).
(iii) Seek opportunities to combine and relocate common outdoor
seating, gathering areas, and urban agriculture facilities to create
an amenity that is inclusionary to both social and market housing
residents and maximizes solar performance.
(iv) Delete and/or reduce the outdoor amenity space at the northwest
corner of the site or reconfigure and design to mitigate noise
impacts from Thurlow Street.
(v) Reconfigure the garbage access to avoid impact on the outdoor
amenity space, particularly on the children’s play area.
(vi) Relocate the loading bay to be directly adjacent to the parkade
ramp, to optimize useable outdoor space and to consolidate
service functions (i.e. refuse, loading, parkade access).
(vii) Provide a minimum 6 ft. landscape buffer between the common
outdoor amenity and the lane (see relevant Landscape
Conditions).
(viii) Provide a screen and/or a minimum 3 ft. landscape buffer
between the loading and the outdoor space (see relevant
Landscape Conditions).
Note to Applicant: The children’s outdoor play areas do not perform well
as they are difficult to supervise, do not have an accessible path of travel,
and are crossed by the garbage access for both residential uses. All
common areas should be wheelchair accessible. See Housing Conditions
for further comments on outdoor spaces.
It is additionally recommended to replace the small patio at the northwest
corner with a larger landscaped area and/or public artwork.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing agenda
and the above-noted memo.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list:
• 10 letters opposed to the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:12 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 58
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability presented the application, including the
information in the above-noted memo, and along with staff from Arts, Culture and Community
Services, Engineering Services, and the City Manager, responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Cameron Thorn, Strand Development, introduced the application and responded to questions.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application, noting concerns with traffic, an excess of
parking, and the economics of the application:
Don Rosenbloom
Peter Lipscombe
John Yano
John Cassidy
Carrie Bercic spoke in support of the application so long as the change to the summary and
recommendations proposed in the above-noted memo was also being included.
Applicant Closing Comments
Mr. Thorn responded to questions.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability
provided closing comments and responded to questions.
Council Decision
The motion below contains changes from the summary and recommendation, which are noted
in bold italics.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Strand Development in partnership with Intracorp
Projects Ltd., on behalf of the registered owner, Thurlow Street Project Nominee
Inc., to rezone 1068 Burnaby Street [Lot 8, Except the West 25 Feet, and The
West 25 Feet of Lot 8, both of Block 12, District Lot 185, Plan 92; PIDs 015-749-

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 59
118 and 015-749-126 respectively], 1090 Burnaby Street [PID 010-748-628; Lot
A, Block 12, District Lot 185, Plan 7000] and 1318 Thurlow Street [Strata Lots 1
to 14, District Lot 185, Strata Plan VR. 1437; PIDs 004-478-215, 004-204-948,
002-828-669, 002-862-999, 006-543-961, 004-427-777, 002-630-788, 003-559-
866, 004-074-238, 006-543-987, 006-123-881, 006-544-061, 006-544-088 and
006-544-100 respectively] from RM-5A (Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to increase the permitted floor space ratio
(FSR) from 2.20 FSR to 9.01 FSR and the building height from 18.30 m to 88.66
m to permit the development of a 30-storey residential tower containing 39 social
housing units and 82 market strata units, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the policy report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1068-1090
Burnaby Street and 1318 Thurlow Street” be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by NSDA Architects and received September 5, 2017,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined
in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning, who
shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design:
1. Design development to improve site planning and “tower in the park”
expression , as follows:
(i) Reconfigure the northeast corner of the site to accommodate a
Public Bike Share (50 percent on private property, 50 percent on
City property), with a landscape buffer between the PBS and the
outdoor amenity space (refer to Engineering conditions).
(ii) On Thurlow Street, improve the interface to the sidewalk by
reducing retaining walls to no more than 3 ft. in height,
minimizing stairs, and providing a minimum 3 ft. landscape buffer
outboard of the retaining walls. Provide a further 9 ft. of
landscaping in the raised planters (for a total 12 ft. landscape
buffer).
(iii) On Burnaby Street, increase the landscape buffer at the property
line to minimum 12 ft. (reduced to 6 ft. adjacent to the Public Bike
Share).
(iv) Consider providing a work of public art in the northwest corner of
the site (i.e. in place of the outdoor common area).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 60
Note to Applicant: The landscape buffers on the street frontages should
be increased to enhance the “tower in the park” expression and provide
better privacy for the outdoor amenity. Consider relocating the two exit
stairs on Thurlow Street into the building and/or combining them into a
single stair. Refer also to relevant Landscape conditions.
2. Design development to improve common outdoor spaces for social
and market housing with the goal of promoting inclusiveness and
creating improved, larger contiguous outdoor amenities shared by
all residents, and provide such legal agreements as are necessary to
enable sharing, as follows:
(i) Require a combined children’s play area for social and
market housing to create an improved and larger contiguous
amenity that may be accessed by all residents (i.e. from
market and social housing) and is commensurate in size with
the number of family units. Additionally, provide weather
protected seating adjacent to the children’s play area to
promote an outdoor space for parental supervision. Consider
locating the children’s play area in the south yard.
(ii) Seek opportunities to provide direct access and clear
sightlines to the children’s play area from a multi-purpose
amenity room that serves as the social housing common
indoor space (consider grade implications in ultimate
location).
(iii) Seek opportunities to combine and relocate common outdoor
seating, gathering areas, and urban agriculture facilities to
create an amenity that is inclusionary to both social and
market housing residents and maximizes solar performance.
(iv) Delete and/or reduce the outdoor amenity space at the
northwest corner of the site or reconfigure and design to
mitigate noise impacts from Thurlow Street.
(v) Reconfigure the garbage access to avoid impact on the
outdoor amenity space, particularly on the children’s play
area.
(vi) Relocate the loading bay to be directly adjacent to the
parkade ramp, to optimize useable outdoor space and to
consolidate service functions (i.e. refuse, loading, parkade
access).
(vii) Provide a minimum 6 ft. landscape buffer between the
common outdoor amenity and the lane (see relevant
Landscape Conditions).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 61
(viii) Provide a screen and/or a minimum 3 ft. landscape buffer
between the loading and the outdoor space (see relevant
Landscape Conditions).
Note to Applicant: The children’s outdoor play areas do not
perform well as they are difficult to supervise, do not have an
accessible path of travel, and are crossed by the garbage access
for both residential uses. All common areas should be wheelchair
accessible. See Housing Conditions for further comments on
outdoor spaces.
It is additionally recommended to replace the small patio at the
northwest corner with a larger landscaped area and/or public
artwork.
3. Design development to improve the livability of the non-market housing,
as follows:
(i) Provide a private outdoor space for all family units;
(ii) Relocate bulk storage away off of exterior walls, particularly
where they interfere with windows;
(iii) Provide bulk storage for every dwelling unit per the Bulk Storage
bulletin, and relocate in-suite storage rooms away from exterior
walls; and
(iv) Show furniture layout of common amenity space to illustrate
functionality and programming.
Note to Applicant: Some 3-bedroom units on levels 3-6 appear to have
no balconies. Many in-suite storage rooms are located on exterior walls
and conflict with window locations. See Housing Conditions for further
comments on the livability of the non-market housing.
4. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the current Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings, with clarification of whether the Near
Zero Emissions Building or a Passive House Certification approach will
be pursued.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be submitted as
part of the Development Permit that articulates which strategies, features
or technologies will be incorporated into the project in order to achieve
the objectives of the Green Buildings Policy. A letter from an accredited
professional must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns with the
applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of registration of the project
with certification-granting organization (CaGBC or other) must be
provided with the application. Application for certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 62
5. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any built
features intended to create a bird friendly design;
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a design
rationale for the features noted. For more information, see the guidelines
at http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.)
6. Consideration to provide seating on private property at the corner of
Thurlow Street and Burnaby Streets with direct access to the sidewalk is
to be demonstrated to improve walkability within the West End.
Landscape
7. Design development to the ground-floor street frontage landscape
buffering to be layered with plants and trees (space permitting).
8. Design development to the landscape treatment to increase the volume
of soil, tree canopy cover, and planting on slab, as follows:
(i) consideration for intensive/extensive green roof and related
amenity programming; and
(ii) lower the slab in the courtyard area below the planters, to the
greatest extent practicable.
Note to Applicant: Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab
should be designed to maximize soil depths. This will require integration
of the landscape design and the structural plan. Soil depths should
exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard. At the perimeter of the building the
slab can be angled downward (1 m across and 1.2 m down) to maximize
contiguous soil volumes.
9. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking garage
vents and Vista switch in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression, and on the project’s open space and public
realm.
10. Design Development to the Integrated Rainwater Management Strategy
to explore opportunities for onsite rain water infiltration and soil
absorption, as follows:
(i) maximize natural landscape best management practises;
(ii) minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water storage;
(iii) increase the amount of planting to the rooftop areas, where
possible;
(iv) consider linear infiltration bio-swales along property lines;
(v) use permeable paving;
(vi) employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever possible);
and
(vii) use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage areas.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 63
Note to Applicant: Refer to the City of Vancouver Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan (I.R.M.P), Vol.1 & 2 for further information. A
consulting engineer (subject matter expert) will need to be engaged and
early phase soil analysis will be needed. Further comments may be
outstanding at the development permit stage.
11. Provision of plans, plan details and documentation/calculations that
support integrated rainwater management, including absorbent
landscapes, soil volumes and detention systems, as follows:
(i) detailed storm water report with calculations describing how the
various best management practices contribute to the quality and
quantity targets;
(ii) a separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic grading
indicating intent to direct rainwater to infiltration zones; and
(iii) an overlay plan that shows amount and ratio of vegetative cover
(green roof), permeable/impermeable hardscaping and notations
describing the storage location of rainwater falling on each
surface, including roofs.
Note to Applicant: The sustainable summary water balance calculations
assume soil volumes are capable of receiving rainwater and are only
valid if water is directed from hard surfaces to infiltration zones.
12. Provision of an arborist report that assesses impacts and requirements
for street tree canopy and root pruning.
Note to Applicant: Design development may be needed to minimize
impacts to street trees. Further coordination to occur at the development
permit stage.
13. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1 ft. scale minimum. The
Plant List should include the common and botanical name, size and
quantity of all existing/ proposed plant material. Plant material should be
clearly illustrated on the Plan and keyed to the Plant List. The landscape
plan should include the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all
existing or proposed street trees, adjoining walkways, surface materials,
PMT/Vista transformers and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro
poles, fire hydrants.
14. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4" scale) through common open spaces, semi-private patio
areas and the public realm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 64
Note to Applicant: The sections should illustrate, the slab design and
location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy and any associated
landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas, illustrate and
dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside dimension), soil, root
ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and portions of the adjacent building,
such as residential units or amenity rooms.
15. Provision of a “Tree Management Plan”.
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management plan
become the primary document for tree removal/ protection related
matters. Attach a large-scale tree management sheet (same size sheet
as architectural sheets) to the landscape plan submission.
16. Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include signatures by
the owner, contractor and arborist.
Note to Applicant: the signatures confirm that all parties are aware of the
roles and responsibilities and that the project is on track to satisfy the
steps and recommendations outlined by the arborist. For example,
advanced planning will be needed to ensure that certain works, such as
site supervision checkpoints, are coordinated.
17. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site, where
applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the development permit
plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building permit. Contact
Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering (604.871.6131) to confirm tree
planting locations and Park Board (604.257.8587) for tree species
selection and planting requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as
follows, "Final spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved root
barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8 ft. long
and 18 inches in. Planting depth of root ball must be below sidewalk
grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree planting completion".
18. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose bibs
for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation connection points and
hose bib symbols accurately and provide a highlighted note to verify the
irrigation is to be designed and constructed. Hose bibs are requested to
encourage patio gardening and hand watering on private patio and
amenity decks.
19. Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical landscape
structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis).
20. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 65
Note to Applicant: Consider “CPTED” principles and avoid any lighting
that can cause glare to residential use.
Heritage
21. Provision of an as built set of drawings with photo analysis of Hobbs
Residence.
22. Completion of a Statement of Significance, which is to be submitted to
the City.
23. Provision of a letter, signed by the property owner, which states that they
will seek opportunities for relocation and heritage protection of Hobbs
Residence.
24. Provision of a letter, signed by the property owner, which states that a
demolition application for Hobbs Residence, located at 1090 Burnaby
Street, will not be submitted until necessary for construction of the new
development.
25. The property owner would be required to adhere to the Planning – Bylaw
Administration Bulletin for Demolition Permits for Pre-1940 Houses –
Recycling Requirements, should a solution not be found that relocates
and saves Hobbs Residence as a protected heritage building. This
criteria would ensure a minimum reuse and recycling of 90 percent (by
weight) of demolition material (excluding hazardous materials).
Sustainability
26. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e.
Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green
Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are
summarized at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate that the
development is on track to achieve the above requirements at each
stage of permit. For more detail on the above requirements and what
must be submitted at each stage, refer to the most recent bulletin Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended
April 28, 2017 or later).
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
27. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 66
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider use of a
legend or key to features on the drawings. Consultation with the social
housing operators and Park Board staff with experience of the more
specific CPTED risks in this area is recommended, and should be
included the response to this condition.
Engineering
28. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire
the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to
minimize street use during excavation & construction (i.e. consideration
to the building design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct
from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major
crane erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
29. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without
any portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of
way.
30. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual
section 02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and
access around existing and future utilities adjacent your site. Current
construction practices regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put
City utilities at risk during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring
systems. Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be sought at
the building permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of
written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
31. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show containers and
totters on plans for recycling and garbage needs, and refer to the
Engineering garbage and recycling storage facility design supplement for
recommended dimensions and quantities of bins. Please ensure
pathway has adequate width to accommodate widest bins expected to
be moved from storage to the lane and note that pick-up operations
should not rely on bins being stored on the street or lane for pick up, bins
are to be returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.
32. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan:
“This plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start
of any construction proposed for public property. No work on public
property may begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 67
and related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector
for details.”
33. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public realm
changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for this
rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please make note of
the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans. Please submit a
copy of the updated plan to engineering for review.
34. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to the
bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
35. Design development to provide direct “stairs free” loading access from
the Class B loading space to both the social housing and market
elevator cores and note on plans.
Note to Applicant: Confirm access to the market elevator is being
provided without going through the social housing lobby.
36. Provision of a planting plan and a plant list, as required under
Landscape.
Note to Applicant: Retain the plantings in curb bulge on Thurlow Street.
37. Given the available width between the property line and the sidewalk
along Burnaby Street, it is acceptable for applicant to shift the Public
Bike Share (PBS) space north 2 m so that the 2 m station footprint is
located on private property and the remaining 2 m required for bike
maneuvering is located on public property within the back boulevard
space.
38. Applicant to confirm there are no conflicts with fire connections adjacent
to or behind the PBS space.
39. Applicant to remove the proposed landscaping/trees as shown on
Drawing L1.2 to be within the 19m x 2m PBS space and provide a hard
surface free and clear of in-ground utility access points (including
drains).
40. Please include elevations at four corners of the PBS space on drawing
to confirm grades.
41. Please show the location of electrical connection that will serve the PBS
station on the drawings.
42. Design development to comply with the Parking and Loading Design
Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services (GMES). The following items are required:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 68
(i) Number and dimension all stalls, dimension ramp widths,
maneuvering aisle widths, and all column encroachments.
Note to Applicant: Disability stalls require additional width and a
minimum 20 foot ramp width is required as 19.5 feet is shown on
drawing A104.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking ramp
at all breakpoints, additional elevations within the parking areas,
both sides of the loading bay, and at all entrances.
(iii) Provision of a heated ramp and note on plans.
Note to Applicant: Ramps which have a 15 percent slope and are
exposed to the weather must be heated.
(iv) Design development to provide a Class B loading space to
minimize conflicts with pedestrians and any required
maneuvering over the pedestrian path out to Maxine Lane.
Note to Applicant: A truck stopped in the loading space shown on
drawing A105 would need to maneuver over the pedestrian path
and block the pedestrian path while stopped. Shifting the loading
space a minimum of 6’ further east would reduce this conflict and
create additional space for the PMT to be located outside of the
SRW on Thurlow Street.
(v) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be “stairs free” and provide
additional design elevations to confirm.
(vi) Provision of the minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp
and security gates.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical clearance
is required for access and maneuvering to all disability spaces.
43. Provide gridlines on drawings A101-A106.
44. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and maintained in
accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver Parking By-law.
Note to Project Coordinator: One bike room is showing 50 spaces and
20 percent of the Class A bicycle spaces will be required in bicycle
lockers. The number of spaces provided for social housing, the ratio of
small car spaces, and the number of disability parking spaces are to be
confirmed with Parking By-Law requirements.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 69
Social Housing
45. Locate the social housing laundry area directly adjacent to the amenity
space to enable parents to observe children while doing their laundry, as
per S. 4.2.1.g. of Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
46. Provide details about social housing common laundry area that
demonstrate compliance with S. 4.2.8 of Housing Design and Technical
Guidelines, including demonstration that a minimum of one washer/dryer
combination is designed for accessible use.
47. Provide details about social housing indoor amenity spaces that
demonstrate compliance with S. 4.2 of Housing Design and Technical
Guidelines (Indoor Amenity Spaces (Additional Requirements)).
48. Revise design of the equipment storage and maintenance spaces to
comply with S. 4.4.5 (a and b).
49. Revise design of the social housing janitor’s closets to comply with
S.4.4.7a of the Housing Design and Technical Guidelines. Also, locate
one janitor’s closet every four floors (e.g. on levels three and six). Each
janitor’s closet should contain a floor sink and some storage.
50. As per S.4.4.11 of the Housing Design and Technical Guidelines, in the
social housing provide separate, lockable mechanical and electrical
rooms to safely accommodate items such as hot water tanks, electrical
panels, data lines, telephone and security equipment panels, gas, water
or hydro meters and any other mechanical or electrical equipment that
need to be accommodated within the building.
51. As per S.4.4.12 of the Housing Design and Technical Guidelines,
provide a heat treatment room for purposes of exterminating bedbugs in
a location where a new occupant would enter the premise with their
belongings (e.g. within the parking garage or off the main lobby).
52. Provide a furniture layout to scale for the social housing units to
demonstrate functionality and accessibility, as per S.5.4 of the Housing
Design and Technical Guidelines.
53. Design development to provide at least two wheelchair accessible units
(in compliance with the Housing Design and Technical Guidelines) on
Level Two that enable entrance and exiting at grade in the event the
elevator is unavailable, or provide two elevators to serve the social
housing.
54. In the Social Housing Amenity Room, provide a kitchenette and
accessible washroom, as per S.3.7.2 of the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 70
55. Provide a Final Tenant Relocation Plan to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, which in addition to
the terms already agreed to, will include an updated list of tenants and
rents, current as of the time of Development Permit application.
56. Provide a notarized declaration which demonstrates that each tenant
has been given written notice of the intent to redevelop the property; that
indicates the number of units occupied on the date of the notice; and,
includes copies of a letter addressed to each tenant summarizing the
Tenant Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each tenant.
57. Provide a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior to
issuance of the occupancy permit. The Report must outline the names of
tenants; indicate the outcome of their search for alternate
accommodations; summarize the total monetary value given to each
tenant (moving costs, rents, any other compensation); and, include a
summary of all communication provided to the tenants.
58. Prior to issuance of Development Permit, applicant to display a sign on
the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that social housing
is being provided as part of the City of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign
design, format, and location to be approved by the City.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to the General
Manager of Planning and Development, the Managing Director of Social
Development, the General Manager of Engineering Services, the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the Director of Facility
Design and Management and Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole
cost and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Strata Plan VAS1437 (after cancellation of the Strata
Plan and the dissolution of the strata corporation); Lot A, The West 25
Feet of Lot 8, and Lot 8 Except the West 25 Feet, Plan 7000; All of Block
12, District Lot 185 to create a single parcel.
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement K31005 (encroachment
agreement for landscaping) and Covenant M7376 (Rental) prior to
building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an occupancy
permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment will satisfactorily
address this condition.
3. Confirmation that Statutory Right of Way 28049M (for sewer & drainage
purposes over the east 3 feet of Strata VAS1437); is currently not in use

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 71
for its intended purpose and then arrange for cancellation or if currently
in use but to be decommissioned with site development, then discharge
of the SRW agreement following decommissioning.
Appropriate arrangements are to be made following confirmation of
disposition of the SRW.
4. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory Right of Way
(SRW) on Thurlow Street to achieve a 4.5 m (14’-9”) distance from the
back of the existing City curb. The SRW will be free of any encumbrance
at grade such as structure, PMT, stairs, door swing, parkade vents, walls
etc.
5. Provision for a Right of Way for the provision of space to accommodate
a Public Bike Share (PBS) Station. The proposed 19 m x 2 m Right of
Way for the PBS space as outlined on Drawing A-106 & L1.2 at the
northeast corner of the site fully on private property along Burnaby Street
is acceptable provided the proposed landscaping within the PBS space
is removed or relocated outside of the PBS space. Additional required
changes include the following:
(i) Size: At a minimum a 19 m x 4 m sized station shall be
accommodated (19 m x 2 m Right of Way on private property).
The full length of the space is to be continuous. The physical
station with docked bicycles is 2 m wide and has a required
bicycle maneuvering zone of 2 m for a total width of 4m.
(ii) Access: Consideration for placement of building elements (e.g.
fire department connections, HVAC vents, etc.) and landscaping
that require frequent access and maintenance directly adjacent to
the PBS space. These elements shall not be in conflict or cause
frequent disruption to the PBS station.
(iii) Surface treatment: A hard surface, CIP concrete (saw cut or
broom finished) is required with no utility access points within the
PBS station footprint (except as noted below). Any utility access
point within 1 m of the PBS space is to be identified and shown in
a detailed drawing submitted. Other firm, paved materials are
subject to approval.
(iv) Grades: The surface must be leveled with a maximum cross
slope of 3 percent and have a consistent grade (i.e. no grade
transitions) along the length with a maximum slope of 5 percent.
At minimum, spot elevations at the four corners of the station
must be provided.
(v) Sun exposure: There must be a minimum of 5 m vertical
clearance above the PBS space in order to maximize sun
exposure as station operates on solar power. Ideally the station
should receive 5 hours of direct sunlight a day.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 72
(vi) Power: Provision of an electrical service and electrical power is
to be available in close proximity to the PBS station.
6. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street
dedications and rights of way for the services are provided. No
development permit for the site will be issued until the security for the
services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the details
to determine if water main upgrading is required. Please supply
project details including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler
demand, hydrant load, and domestic water demands to
determine if water main upgrading is required. Should upgrading
be necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100 percent of any
water system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Upgrade approximately 585 m of existing 375 mm sanitary sewer
main to 450 mm sanitary sewer main on Pacific Street from
Burrard Street to Jervis Street.
The sewer upgrading costs borne by this project may be reduced
should benefiting nearby development proceed concurrently with
this project with the said reduction to be determined at the sole
discretion of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of a new 1.83 m (6 ft.) sod grass front boulevard and
2.14 m (7 ft.) light broom-finish saw-cut concrete sidewalk on
Thurlow Street adjacent the site.
(iv) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(v) Relocation of the speed hump in Maxine Lane away from the top
of the parking ramp. Provide an improved plan showing the
location of the speed hump as no site survey is available to
confirm. The City will provide a location for the new hump(s).
Note to Applicant: Relocation of this speed hump may impact the
other speed humps requiring adjustment to more than this single
hump.
(vi) Provision of 50 percent of the funding for a pedestrian signal at
Thurlow and Burnaby streets.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 73
(vii) Provision of funding for up to 22 percent of the total cost for
interim improvements to the intersection of Davie and Burrard
streets to provide a new traffic signal including a left turn arrow, a
left turn bay and required curb modifications and infrastructure
relocation to accommodate the signal and left turn bay works.
7. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be
primary with all electrical plant, which include but not limited to System
Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks
(including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property
with no reliance on public property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with B.C.
Hydro that an area has been defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has
been allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.
Green Infrastructure
8. Provision of a detailed response toward the IRMP requirements outlined
in the “Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings”, and the following:
9. Provision of a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details how the
rainwater management system meets the IRMP requirements for
infiltration, cleaning and safe conveyance, prepared by a subject matter
expert (Engineer), subject to review by the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
(i) In this instance of a zero lot line design staff will consider:
(a) The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a retention
volume for runoff reduction instead of infiltration volume.
(b) Retention can be achieved through rainwater reuse, in
green roofs and planter boxes, or slow release detention
such as lined permeable pavement systems.
(c) The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a water
quality volume to be treated.
(ii) Staff do not accept the principle that distinct site areas that have
large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way
compensate for those areas of the site that are impervious,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 74
without the first and second 24mm of runoff being directed
towards these absorbent areas, and this being clearly
demonstrated. The subsequent safe conveyance of rainfall
surpassing 48 mm in 24 hours will also need to be demonstrated;
(iii) Where the growing medium is above the level of adjacent paving,
staff do not accept that these elevated growing medium volumes
contribute to the storage and/or treatment of rainwater that has
been directed towards these areas from adjacent surfaces;
(iv) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from
impermeable surfaces into planted or other storage/treatment
areas.
(v) Provide outline area/volume calculations to support the overall
rainwater management strategy. Include the area measurement
for all pervious/impervious areas and demonstrate that each of
the receiving infiltration/treatment areas can accommodate the
proposed runoff volumes without being inundated;
(vi) Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will be considered
as rainwater retention/runoff reduction and water quality
practices.
(vii) Planters designed as flow-through planters can be used to meet
the treatment volume requirement;
(viii) Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout planted areas
and include shallow ponding depths within the planted areas as
part of the calculations.
Note: The building/public realm should be designed to show leadership
in the City’s commitment to Green Building systems including an
integrative approach to rainwater management to minimize potable
water use and encourage the use of alternative water sources in areas
such as toilet flushing and irrigation;
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure on-going
operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater management and
green infrastructure systems.
Sustainability
10. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the Director of
Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the building to report
energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the building as a whole
and certain common areas and building systems. Such an agreement
will further provide for the hiring of a qualified service provider to assist
the building owner for a minimum of three years in collecting and
submitting energy use data to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 75
Social Housing
11. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services
in consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services and the Director of Facilities Planning and
Development, to secure the applicant’s obligation to design, build and
deliver to the City social housing units which comprise no less than 25
percent of the total floor area for all uses that are included in the
calculation of floor space ratio, and associated parking and bike storage
for such social housing, all contained within a separate air space parcel.
The agreement or agreements will address, but not be limited to, the
following issues:
(i) Total floor area must be at least 25 percent of the total floor area
for all uses that are included in the calculation of floor space
ratio;
(ii) All associated storage lockers, vehicle and bicycle parking to be
provided is not included in the above net floor area;
(iii) Breakdown of unit types (i.e. studios, one-bedroom units,
two-bedroom units, accessible units, etc.), sizes, parking
numbers and finish specifications must be as per the City’s
Housing Design and Technical Guidelines;
(iv) Unit design and associated storage and amenity space must be
as per the City’s High Density Housing for Families with Children
Guidelines; and
(v) The air space parcel for the social housing must be designed to
be as autonomous as possible, with design considerations
maximizing the efficiency and minimizing the cost of operations
over the life of the project and within the larger development.
Note to Applicant: All units must be designed and delivered in
compliance with the City’s Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
12. Grant the City an option to purchase, for a nominal purchase price, the
social housing air space parcel, exercisable upon completion of
construction of the social housing.
13. As a condition of issuance for the Building Permit, a Letter of Credit will
be required in an amount equal to the estimated cost. The estimated
cost is typically the cost to complete and deliver the Social Housing
Parcel to the City. This includes the costs to finish and equip, provide all
furnishings and equipment; complete all landscaping, if any; and cover
all soft costs such as consultant design fees and permit fees for the
Social Housing Parcel.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 76
Note to Applicant: The value of the Letter of Credit will be determined at
the time of registration of the legal agreements related to the provision of
Social Housing.
14. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services to
enter into a Housing Agreement applicable to the social housing air
space parcel for 60 years or the life of the building, whichever is greater,
which will contain the following terms and conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less than
one month at a time;
(iv) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of “social
housing” in the applicable DCL By-law; and
(v) Compliance with the City approved Tenant Relocation and
Protection Plan, including provision of a final Tenant Relocation
Report prior to issuance of the occupancy permit; and
(vi) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
15. The In-Kind Social Housing will:
(i) be secured by letters of credit (“Amenity LCs”) provided to the
City prior to issuance of the building permit, the amount of which
will be settled as part of the rezoning enactment documents; all
LC’s will be in compliance with and in the form set out in the
City’s Letter of Credit Policy AF-002-02:
http://citywire.city.vancouver.bc.ca/departments/fs/treasury/docu
ments/Policy-AF00202-LettersofCredit-2016-06-24.pdf; and
(ii) to the extent possible, be built with separate dedicated building
systems so that its operating costs are accounted for and
managed separately from the balance of the respective
development.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 77
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) – Cash Payment
16. Payment of the cash CAC of $5,354,805 offered by the applicant, which
is to be allocated to support delivery of the West End Public Benefits
Strategy, with timing of payment on terms as follows:
(i) The cash CAC must be paid on the earlier of the following dates:
a. the date of issuance of the first building permit for the
development; and
b. the date that is 24 months (measured in calendar days)
following the date of rezoning enactment.
(ii) Prior to rezoning enactment, the aforementioned deferred cash
CAC payment will be secured via:
c. delivery of a letter of credit in the City’s required form in
the full amount of the cash CAC (all LC’s will be in
compliance with and in the form set out in the City’s Letter
of Credit Policy AF-002-02:
http://citywire.city.vancouver.bc.ca/departments/fs/treasur
y/documents/Policy-AF00202-LettersofCredit-2016-06-
24.pdf); and/or
(iii) a mortgage to be registered against title to the rezoning site in
first place securing the payment of the cash CAC in the timeline
noted above. The Applicant must reimburse the City for all
external legal costs in connection with the granting and
registration of the aforementioned mortgage including, without
limitation, due diligence and documentation costs and such
mortgage will accrue interest at prime plus 3 percent, which
interest will be waived and such security discharged if the cash
CAC is paid to the City within the timeline noted above.
(iv) The City will be entitled to realize on the aforementioned letter of
credit or mortgage (as applicable) if the required cash CAC
payment is not made by the time noted above.
If the Applicant should sell (in whole or in part) its interest in the
development on the Rezoning Lands or shares in the Applicant
or corporations which hold legal or beneficial interest in the
Applicant or this development, then the City may immediately
draw down the entire remaining balance of the LC or (if
applicable) Applicant must payout (including accrued interest) the
aforementioned mortgages securing the cash CAC payment,
upon the closing of such sale transaction.
The deferred payment and any interest, as applicable, will also
be secured by a Building Permit hold, which will be registered on
title prior to rezoning enactment and, if required, an additional

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 78
Occupancy Permit hold for the respective development, to be
released only on confirmation of receipt by the City of the full
amount of the total Cash CAC Balances (plus interest, if
applicable).
Local Buyers First
17. The Applicant’s voluntary commitment to support residents who live or
work in Metro Vancouver by giving them the first opportunity to purchase
new pre-sale homes in the new development on the Rezoning Lands,
which includes the following:
(i) For the first 30 calendar days after the launch of the “pre-sales
marketing campaign” for this development (or each phase of the
development, if applicable, the “Exclusive Local Buyer Period”),
only those who live or work in Metro Vancouver will be eligible to
purchase homes in this development, and all such buyers will be
required by the Applicant to sign a statutory declaration attesting
that they live or work in Metro Vancouver and intend to occupy
the unit they are purchasing.
(ii) The text of the statutory declaration will be agreed upon in
advance of the rezoning enactment by the Applicant and the
City’s Director of Legal Services.
(iii) There shall be no foreign marketing during this Exclusive Local
Buyer Period.
(iv) No buyer shall be allowed to purchase more than one (1) unit
within this Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
Public Art
18. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal Services
and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in accordance with
the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to provide for security in a
form and amount satisfactory to the aforesaid officials; and provide
development details to the satisfaction of the Public Art Program
Manager (a checklist will be provided).
Note to Applicant: Please call Eric Fredericksen, Public Art Program
Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
19. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection Branch
(EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection and the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 79
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a
remediation agreement for the remediation of the site and any
contaminants which have migrated from the site on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental
Protection, City Engineer and Director of Legal Services, including
a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no occupancy of any
buildings or improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to the City
for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, has been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the preceding
agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the property
owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject sites as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning
by-law, as approved in principle by Council and described in section (c) of
Appendix B, of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1068-1090 Burnaby Street and 1318 Thurlow Street”subject to such terms and
conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 80
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03254)
(Councillor Jang opposed)
6. REZONING: 1055 Harwood Street
An application by Strand Development in conjunction with Intracorp Projects Ltd. was
considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1055 Harwood Street from RM-5A (Multiple Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
32-storey residential building with 44 social housing units and 82 market
strata units. A height of 91.4 metres (300 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of
9.95 are proposed.
Council also had before it a memo dated July 23, 2018, from the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability which brought forward additional information about the
application and recommended an additional Urban Design Condition of Approval to address
public concerns related to separated common areas for market and social housing, as follows:
THAT the following be added to the Urban Design Conditions of Approval as set out in
the summary and recommendation of the public hearing agenda:
“Despite Urban Design Condition of Approval (b)1 further design development is
to explore improving common outdoor spaces for social and market housing with
the goal of promoting inclusiveness and creating improved, larger contiguous
outdoor amenities shared by all residents, and provide such legal agreements as
are necessary to enable sharing, as follows:
(i) Provide a shared children’s play area for social and market housing to
create an improved and larger contiguous amenity that may be accessed
by all residents (i.e. from market and social housing) and is
commensurate in size with the number of family units. Additionally,
provide weather protected seating adjacent to the children’s play area to
promote an outdoor space for parental supervision.
(ii) Seek opportunities to provide direct access and clear sightlines to the
children’s play area from a multi-purpose amenity room that serves as the
social housing common indoor space (consider grade implications in
ultimate location).
(iii) Seek opportunities to combine and relocate common outdoor seating,
gathering areas, and urban agriculture facilities to create an amenity that

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 81
is inclusionary to both social and market housing residents and
maximizes solar performance.”
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda, and the above-noted memo.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list:
• Five letters opposed to the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:19 pm.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application noting problems with traffic, an excess of
parking and the need to combine the proposed playgrounds:
Don Rosenbloom
Peter Lipscombe
John Yano
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Engineering Services and Arts, Culture, and Community Services, responded to
questions.
Mayor Robertson requested information on whether there has been any analysis on access to
the Burrard Bridge since changes to the intersection at Pacific Avenue and whether establishing
Thurlow Street as a one-way vs. two-way had been considered in the process.
Council Decision
The motion below contains changes from the summary and recommendation of the public
hearing agenda which are noted in bold italics.
Note: please see page ____ for the final motion adopted.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the application by Strand Development in conjunction with Intracorp
Projects Ltd., on behalf of the registered owner, Harwood Street Project Nominee
Inc., to rezone 1055 Harwood Street [Lots 12 and 13, Block 12, District Lot 185,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 82
Plan 92; PIDs 015-749-134 and 015-749-142 respectively], from RM-5A (Multiple
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to increase the
permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.20 to 9.95 and the building height from
18.3 m to 91.4 m to permit the development of a 32-storey residential tower
which would contain 44 social housing units and 82 market strata units, generally
as presented in Appendix A of the policy report dated July 6, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 1055 Harwood Street” be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by NSDA Architects and received October 5, 2017”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in
(b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning, who
shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the livability, as follows:
(i) For the social housing, increase the size of the indoor common
space to meet Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: The outdoor amenity space size should be
maintained as proposed. Please also refer to relevant conditions
under Affordable Housing.
(ii) For the social housing, reconfigure or remove irregularly-shaped,
under-functioning in-suite storage rooms.
Note to Applicant: Irregular-shaped/sized storage rooms are not
excluded from floor space (refer to Technical conditions). Bulk
storage for studios and one-bedrooms may be relocated to the
parkade level. Bulk storage for family units must be located
in-suite.
(iii) For the market housing, provide approximately 93.0 sq. m
(1,000 sq. ft.) of indoor amenity space, with improved access to
the outdoor space.
(iv) Increase the size of the market outdoor space by deleting or
reducing the water feature, and by reducing the landscape buffer
to Harwood Street to approximately 3.66 m (12 ft.) (measured
from the south property line).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 83
(v) Relocate bulk storage rooms off the exterior wall (i.e. Level 8,
Unit 3).
Note to Applicant: Dimensions and areas of common indoor and outdoor
spaces should be indicated on the drawings. Deleting the water feature
on the west side of the tower will improve access between the indoor and
outdoor amenity spaces for the market housing, while increasing
programmable/useable outdoor space. Please also refer to relevant
Landscape conditions.
2. Design development to improve the interface to the east neighbour, as
follows:
(i) Add a minimum 0.9 m (3 ft.) landscape strip at the east property
line, for the south half of the site (i.e. below the retaining wall).
(ii) Relocate the mechanical shaft a minimum 0.9 m (3 ft.) from the
east property line.
3. Consideration to improve the building elevations, as follows:
(i) Create a change in plane (minimum 12 in.) between the “solid”
podium element (with stone cladding) and the tower base (with
white frame), on the north and south elevations;
(ii) Relocate balconies at levels 29 and 30, to stack above the lower
balconies/shades, on the west and east elevations;
(iii) Integrate further passive design elements, such as shading
devices on the south and west elevations; and
(iv) Revise glazing to reduce reflectivity and a “tinted” appearance
from the unit interiors.
Note to Applicant: It is understood that floorplate size of the podium may
be marginally increased, to accommodate the change in plane in
materials between the podium and tower. Overall floor space should not
be increased. Some or all of these considerations may be resolved in
detailed design development in a future Development Permit application.
4. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any built
features intended to create a bird-friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a design
rationale for the features noted. For more information, see the guidelines
at http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
5. Despite Urban Design Condition of Approval (b)1 further design
development to improve common outdoor spaces for social and
market housing with the goal of promoting inclusiveness and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 84
creating improved, larger contiguous outdoor amenities shared by
all residents, and provide such legal agreements as are necessary
to enable sharing, as follows:
(i) Provide a shared children’s play area for social and market
housing to create an improved and larger contiguous amenity
that may be accessed by all residents (i.e. from market and
social housing) and is commensurate in size with the number
of family units. Additionally, provide weather protected
seating adjacent to the children’s play area to promote an
outdoor space for parental supervision.
(ii) Seek opportunities to provide direct access and clear
sightlines to the children’s play area from a multi-purpose
amenity room that serves as the social housing common
indoor space (consider grade implications in ultimate
location).
(iii) Seek opportunities to combine and relocate common outdoor
seating, gathering areas, and urban agriculture facilities to
create an amenity that is inclusionary to both social and
market housing residents and maximizes solar performance.
Landscape
6. Design development to the ground-floor amenity area to include:
(i) A children’s area and landscape features with natural materials
such as sand, balancing logs, boulders that provide a range of
creative and motor-skills developing play activities (Note: while
play equipment is neither required nor encouraged, natural
materials are preferred to stimulate creativity and exposure to
nature).
(ii) A front yard landscape setback with trees and layered planting,
where space permits.
7. Design development to integrate grades, retaining walls, walkways and
structural design with the architecture to ensure adequate soil volumes;
Note to Applicant: Soil depths should exceed BCLNA Landscape
Standard. To avoid raised planters above grade, at the perimeter of the
building, angle the corner of the underground slab downward (1 m across
and 1.2 m down) to maximize contiguous soil volumes. Wherever
possible, planted landscapes on slab should be designed to maximize
soil depths.
8. Design development to location of utilities.
Note to Applicant: Avoid the awkward placement of utilities (pad-mounted
transformers, “Vista” junctions, underground venting) visible to the public

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 85
realm. Every effort should be made to integrate utility access into
structures and behind lockable, decorative gates or screened with
landscaping.
9. Provision of neighbour consent letter, accompanied by a tree removal
permit application, for the removal of neighbour tree # 239.
Note to Applicant: The arborist report recommends removal and states
that the tree is in direct conflict with the proposed development. In the
event that neighbour consent cannot be provided to remove the tree,
then design development will be needed to retain and protect the tree in
a safe and responsible manner. This could have major impacts to the
proposed setbacks to above grade and below grade built form along the
south property line.
10. Retention of the retaining wall and neighbour trees located near the east
property line.
Note to Applicant: The arborist report states that the retention of 10
neighbour trees is dependent upon retention of a retaining wall in close
proximity. Removal of the retaining wall and trees will only be supported
if there is a major design or technical rationale with verification there are
no possible design alternatives available. In such case, a neighbour
consent letter must be provided granting permission to remove the offsite
wall/trees, and accompanied by a tree removal permit application and
appropriate re-landscape permit application, subject to review. In the
event that neighbour consent cannot be provided, then design
development will be needed to retain and protect the neighbour wall/trees
in a safe and responsible manner. This could have impacts to the
proposed setbacks to above grade and below grade built form along the
east property line.
11. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping;
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8 in.: 1 ft. scale
minimum. The Plant list should include the common and botanical
name, size and quantity of all existing/ proposed plant material.
Plant material should be clearly illustrated on the Landscape Plan
and keyed to the Plant List. The landscape plan should include
the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or
proposed street trees, adjoining walkways, surface materials,
PMT/Vista transformers and public utilities such as lamp posts,
hydro poles, fire hydrants.
(ii) Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4" inch scale) through common open spaces,
semi-private patio areas and the public realm;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 86
Note to Applicant: In tree areas, the sections should illustrate, the
slab design and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree
canopy and any associated landscaping. For private patios and
amenity areas, illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter
sizes (inside dimension), soil, root ball, retaining walls, steps,
patios and portions of the adjacent building, such as residential
units or amenity rooms.
(iii) Application of universal design principles in the outdoor spaces,
such as wheelchair accessible walkways and site furniture;
(iv) Provision of high-efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
hose bibs for bibs for urban agriculture areas (where applicable);
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation connection
points and hose bib symbols accurately and provide a highlighted
note to verify the irrigation is to be designed and constructed.
(v) Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical landscape
structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis); and
(vi) Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan;
Note to Applicant: Consider “CPTED” principles and avoid any lighting that can
cause glare to residential uses.
Engineering
12. The applicant or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent private
property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead
time for any major crane erection/removal or slab pour that requires
additional street use beyond the already identified project street use
permissions.
13. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual
section 02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and
access around existing and future utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be
sought at the building permit stage with final design achievements
certified and confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of
removals and protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 87
14. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without
any portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of
way.
15. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site improvements
sought for this application. If design details for the off-site improvements
are not available then a note reflecting the requirement is to be placed on
the landscape plan.
16. Please place the following note on the landscape: “This plan is “NOT
FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to Engineering
Services a minimum of eight (8) weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public property
may begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering, Development
Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
17. Provision of consistent drawings as drawings A1.05 and L1.1 are
showing different landscaping layouts and access to the building.
18. Provision of a complete tech table showing the calculations for the
minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the number of
spaces being provided with all stalls numbered and labelled.
19. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to the
bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
20. Provision of an improved plan showing the parking ramp design from the
property line to P1 on one drawing with design elevations and length of
slopes.
Note to Applicant: Currently the ramp design is shown on three separate
drawings.
21. Provision of loading bay design to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. The following items must be
addressed:
(i) Dimension the Class B loading space and any required loading
throat.
(ii) Provide turning swaths for the largest vehicle to service the site
as there is existing landscaping and parking across Maxine Lane
that must be maintained. Show the maneuvering for the vehicle
ingress and egress in three (3) maneuvers or less.
(iii) Provision of a ‘stairs free’ loading access from the Class B
loading space to the social and market elevator cores and show
the access route on the plans. The slope of the loading corridor
must not exceed 5 percent and confirm the use of an elevator, if
required. There seems to be no loading access to the market

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 88
residential elevators.
(iv) Provision of an area at the back of the loading space to unload
with direct access into the building.
22. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as follows:
(i) Dimension all stalls and all columns encroaching into parking
stalls.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking ramp
at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, within the parking
levels and at all entrances.
(iii) Provision of gridlines on drawings A101 – A106.
(iv) Provision of parabolic mirrors to improve visibility for two-way
vehicle movement at turns.
Note to Applicant: Mirrors are required on the ramp and at the
southeast corner of all parking levels.
23. Modification of the parking ramp design to address the following:
(i) The slope must not exceed 10 percent for the first 20 ft. from the
property line.
(ii) 15 percent slopes may be acceptable if a 7.5 percent to 10
percent transition ramp is provided at the bottom for at least 4m in
length. Provide design elevations and ramp lengths on both sides
of the transition ramps to confirm.
24. Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the use of
the parking ramp, if required.
25. Provision minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp, security gates,
and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing elevations, and
vertical clearances. The minimum vertical clearance should be noted on
plans. 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for access and maneuvering
to all disability spaces. 3.5 m of vertical clearance is required for Class B
loading spaces and maneuvering.
26. Note to Applicant: Bicycle storage spaces are to be provided in
accordance with Parking By-law, including locker spaces appropriately

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 89
distributed across the market housing and social housing in the
development.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
27. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the issuance of any
development permit, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
28. Design of the development must provide for Neighbourhood Energy
System (NES) compatibility and shall adhere to the following
requirements:
(i) The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system shall be
designed to be easily connectable and compatible with
Neighbourhood Energy to supply all heating and domestic hot
water requirements. Design provisions related to NES
compatibility must be to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall refer to the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards – Design Guidelines for general
design requirements related to NES compatibility at the building
scale. The applicant is also encouraged to work closely with City
staff during mechanical design to ensure compatibility with a
neighbourhood-scale system. At building permit stage, the
applicant will be required to submit final detailed drawings and a
declaration signed by the registered professional of record
certifying that the Neighbourhood Energy connectivity
requirements have been satisfied.
(ii) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air shall be
provided by hydronic systems without electric resistance heat or
distributed heat generating equipment (including but not limited to
gas fired make-up air heaters, heat producing fireplaces,
distributed heat pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to be
utilized for an energy transfer station connecting the building(s) to
the City-designated NES, as outlined in the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards Design Guidelines, at
development permit.
(iv) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical heating
system at the building permit stage must be to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
29. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition #27, the applicant may
choose, at time of Development Permit, to meet a greenhouse gas

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 90
outcome equivalent to connecting to a low-carbon neighbourhood energy
system. This equivalence must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Director of Planning, and may include achieving a 50 percent GHG
reduction from a high-efficiency natural-gas scenario, achieving the GHG
limits of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (last amended
February 2017), or a Certified Passive House.
Note to Applicant: If following the greenhouse gas outcome equivalency
option, the applicant will be required at each stage of permit to submit
energy model results, for review by Sustainability, demonstrating that the
development is on track to achieve the above requirements and what
must be submitted.
Sustainability
30. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements of the
preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended up to
2016), including a minimum of 63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with
1 point for water efficiency and stormwater management and a 22
percent reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010,
along with registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be submitted as
part of the Development Permit that articulates which credits the
applicant will be pursuing and how their building application, as
submitted, incorporates strategies, features or technologies that will help
achieve these credits. The strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must
be incorporated into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED
Accredited Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the application and the
project registration number incorporated into the drawings. Application for
Certification will be required at a subsequent stage.
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
31. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider use of a
legend or key to features on the drawings. Consultation with the social
housing operators and Park Board staff with experience of the more
specific CPTED risks in this area is recommended, and should be
included the response to this condition.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 91
Affordable Housing
32. Design development to remove the heat treatment room from Level 1 of
the social housing portion of the building.
33. Design development to convert the three-bedroom social housing unit on
Level 2 into two (2) accessible units (e.g. a studio and one-bedroom unit)
to allow for exiting at grade in the event the elevator is broken down, or
provision of a second elevator to address accessibility concerns.
Note to Applicant: Provision of 5 percent accessible units is outlined in
the Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
34. Consider relocating the laundry room from Level 1 to Level 2 in the social
housing portion of the building in order to be in close proximity to the
indoor and outdoor amenity spaces.
35. Provision of a minimum of 3.7 sq. m (40 sq. ft.) of in-suite storage,
including a minimum clear horizontal dimension of 1.2 m in all directions,
in all social housing family units (2 and 3 bedrooms).
Note to Applicant: If this cannot be achieved, an additional storage locker
should be provided below grade.
36. Design development to remove washer-dryer closet and hook-up in all
one-bedroom units in the social housing portion of the building.
37. Design development to the Level 1 market housing common amenity
room to add a kitchenette, accessible washroom, and storage space, and
to the adjacent common outdoor amenity deck to allow for a range of
functional programming including an area suitable for children’s play
activity.
Note to Applicant: Please also refer to relevant conditions under
Landscape.
38. Design development to include accessible urban agriculture planters on
the Level 1 market amenity area along with supporting infrastructure
including high efficiency irrigation and /or hose bib, potting bench, tool
storage and compost box.
39. Provide a separate lockable janitor room with floor sink, space for storing
bucket, mops, brooms, vacuum, ladder, supplies for cleaning, shelves for
paper products, light bulbs, etc., appropriately size to adequately meet
the needs of the building. In addition provide two smaller janitor’s closets
that contain a floor sink and storage on levels 3 and 6.
40. Provide separate, lockable mechanical and electrical rooms to safely
accommodate items such as hot water tanks, electrical panels, data
lines, telephone and security equipment panels, gas, water or hydro

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 92
meters and any other mechanical or electrical equipment that need to be
accommodated within the building.
41. Provide a minimum 18 vehicle parking spaces, including two accessible
parking spaces, for the social housing units.
Note to Applicant: As part of the DP drawings, clearly mark the provision
of vehicle parking spaces for the social housing units. Please also refer
to relevant conditions under Engineering.
42. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a sign on
the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that social housing
is being provided as part of the City of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign
design, format, and location to be approved by the City.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to the General
Manager of Planning and Development, the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services, the General Manager of Engineering Services, the
Director of Facility Design and Management and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 12 and 13, Block 12, DL 185, Plan 92 to create a
single parcel.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street
dedications and rights of way for the services are provided. No
development permit for the site will be issued until the security for the
services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the details
to determine if water main upgrading is required. Please supply
project details including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler
demand, hydrant load, and domestic water demands to determine
if water main upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100 percent of any water system
upgrading that may be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 93
(ii) Upgrade approximately 585 m of existing 375 mm sanitary sewer
main to 450 mm sanitary sewer main on Pacific Street from
Burrard Street to Jervis Street.
Note to Applicant: The sewer upgrading costs borne by this
project may be reduced should benefiting nearby development
proceed concurrently with this project with the said reduction to
be determined at the sole discretion of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks
are to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet
City needs in a configuration acceptable by the GMES and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and regulations. A
detailed design will be required prior to the start of any associated
street work.
Note: as-constructed documentation will be required that includes
photographic and measured evidence of the installed number of
conduits, their final locations and depths.
(iv) Provision of 50 percent of the funding for a new full traffic signal
at the intersection of Harwood Street and Thurlow Street including
all infrastructure adjustments to accommodate the signal
installation.
The traffic signal costs borne by this project may be reduced
should benefiting nearby development proceed concurrently with
this project with the said reduction to be determined at the sole
discretion of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
(v) Provision of funding for up to 22 percent of the total cost for
interim improvements to the intersection of Davie and Burrard to
provide a new traffic signal including a left turn arrow, a left turn
bay and required curb modifications and infrastructure relocation
to accommodate the signal and left turn bay works.
(vi) Provision of repainted paint markings on the existing speed
humps in Maxine Lane between Thurlow and Burrard streets.
(vii) Provision of new and relocated curb and gutter along the site
frontage and transition of the curbing to the east to address the
existing offset in the curb alignment. Work to include any
adjustments to catch basins, extended road paving and
infrastructure to allow the new curbing installation.
(viii) Provision of a minimum 1.83 m (6’- 0”) wide CIP light broom finish
concrete sidewalk with saw-cut joints along the site frontage.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 94
(ix) Provision of upgraded street lighting along the site frontage to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(x) Provision of a bench on private property at the property line facing
Harwood Street and concrete paving between bench and the
sidewalk to provide seating that feels welcoming to the public and
is easily accessible.
(xi) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space permits.
3. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that meets
the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater Management Plan
and complies with the Sewer and Watercourse Bylaw. The plan shall
achieve the following:
(i) Retain or infiltration of 50 percent of the 6-month storm event
volume (24mm) onsite;
(ii) Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) onsite; and
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 2014 IDF-5 year storm event rate.
Note to Applicant: The post development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
Legal arrangements may be required to ensure the ongoing operation of
certain stormwater storage, rainwater management and green
infrastructure systems.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest existing
suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be primary
with all electrical plant, which include but not limited to System Vista,
Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including
non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property with no
reliance on public property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with BC Hydro
that an area has been defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has
been allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 95
Affordable Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services
in consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services and the Director of Facilities Planning and Development, to
secure the applicant’s obligation to design, build and deliver to the City
an air space parcel containing the social housing units (which comprise
no less than the greater of 4,068.3 sq. m. and 25 percent of the total floor
area of the project) and associated parking and bike storage for such
social housing. The agreement or agreements will include, but not be
limited to, the following:
(i) Total net floor area for the social housing must be at least the
greater of 4,068.3 sq. m. and 25 percent of the total floor area of
the project;
(ii) All associated storage lockers, vehicle and bicycle parking to be
provided is not included in the above net floor area;
(iii) Breakdown of unit types (i.e. studios, one-bedroom units,
two-bedroom units, accessible units, etc.), sizes, parking numbers
and finish specifications must be as per the City’s Family Room:
Housing Mix Policy for Rezoning Projects and High Density
Housing for Families with Children Guidelines;
(iv) Unit design and associated storage and amenity space must be
as per the City’s Family Room: Housing Mix Policy for Rezoning
Projects and High Density Housing for Families with Children
Guidelines; and
(v) The air space parcel for the social housing must be designed to
be as autonomous as possible, with design considerations
maximizing the efficiency and minimizing the cost of operations
over the life of the project and within the larger development.
(vi) Grant the City an option to purchase, for a nominal purchase
price, the social housing air space parcel, exercisable upon
completion of construction of the social housing.
(vii) Provide that, as a condition of issuance for the Building Permit, a
Letter of Credit will be required in an amount equal to the
estimated cost to complete and deliver the Social Housing Parcel
to the City. This includes the costs to finish and equip, provide all
furnishings and equipment; complete all landscaping, if any; and
cover all soft costs such as consultant design fees and permit
fees for the Social Housing Parcel.
Note to Applicant: All units must be designed and delivered in
compliance with the City’s Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 96
Note to Applicant: The value of the Letter of Credit will be determined at
the time of application for a Building Permit for the project.
6. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services to
enter into a Housing Agreement applicable to the social housing air
space parcel for 60 years or the life of the building, whichever is greater,
which will contain the following terms and conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of “social
housing” in the applicable DCL By-law; and
(v) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
7. The In-Kind Affordable Housing will:
(i) be secured by letters of credit (“Amenity LCs”) provided to the
City prior to issuance of the building permit, the amount of which
will be settled as part of the rezoning enactment documents; all
LC’s will be in compliance with and in the form set out in the City’s
Letter of Credit Policy AF-002-02:
http://citywire.city.vancouver.bc.ca/departments/fs/treasury/docu
ments/Policy-AF00202-LettersofCredit-2016-06-24.pdf; and
(ii) to the extent possible, be built with separate dedicated building
systems so that its operating costs are accounted for and
managed separately from the balance of the respective
development.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) - Cash Payment
8. Payment of the cash CAC of $6,619,470 offered by the applicant, which
is to be allocated to support delivery of the West End Public Benefits
Strategy, with timing of payment on terms as follows:
(i) The cash CAC must be paid on the earlier of the following dates:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 97
a. the date of issuance of the first building permit for the
development; and
b. the date that is 24 months (measured in calendar days)
following the date of rezoning enactment.
(ii) Prior to rezoning enactment, the aforementioned deferred cash
CAC payment will be secured via:
a. delivery of a letter of credit in the City’s required form in
the full amount of the cash CAC (all LC’s will be in
compliance with and in the form set out in the City’s Letter
of Credit Policy AF-002-02:
http://citywire.city.vancouver.bc.ca/departments/fs/treasur
y/documents/Policy-AF00202-LettersofCredit-2016-06-
24.pdf; and/or
(iii) A mortgage to be registered against title to the rezoning site in
first place securing the payment of the cash CAC in the timeline
noted above. The Applicant must reimburse the City for all
external legal costs in connection with the granting and
registration of the aforementioned mortgage including, without
limitation, due diligence and documentation costs and such
mortgage will accrue interest at prime plus 3 percent, which
interest will be waived and such security discharged if the cash
CAC is paid to the City within the timeline noted above.
(iv) The City will be entitled to realize on the aforementioned letter of
credit or mortgage (as applicable) if the required cash CAC
payment is not made by the time noted above.
If the Applicant should sell (in whole or in part) its interest in the
development on the Rezoning Lands or shares in the Applicant or
corporations which hold legal or beneficial interest in the
Applicant or this development, then the City may immediately
draw down the entire remaining balance of the LC or (if
applicable) Applicant must payout (including accrued interest) the
aforementioned mortgages securing the cash CAC payment,
upon the closing of such sale transaction.
The deferred payment and any interest, as applicable, will also be
secured by a Building Permit hold, which will be registered on title
prior to rezoning enactment and, if required, an additional
Occupancy Permit hold for the respective development, to be
released only on confirmation of receipt by the City of the full
amount of the total Cash CAC Balances (plus interest, if
applicable).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 98
Local Buyers First
9. The Applicant’s voluntary commitment to support residents who live or
work in Metro Vancouver by giving them the first opportunity to purchase
new pre-sale homes in the new development on the Rezoning Lands,
which includes the following:
(i) For the first 30 calendar days after the launch of the “pre-sales
marketing campaign” for this development (or each phase of the
development, if applicable, the “Exclusive Local Buyer Period”),
only those who live or work in Metro Vancouver will be eligible to
purchase homes in this development, and all such buyers will be
required by the Applicant to sign a statutory declaration attesting
that they live or work in Metro Vancouver and intend to occupy
the unit they are purchasing.
(ii) The text of the statutory declaration will be agreed upon in
advance of the rezoning enactment by the Applicant and the
City’s Director of Legal Services.
(iii) There shall be no foreign marketing during this Exclusive Local
Buyer Period.
(iv) No buyer shall be allowed to purchase more than one (1) unit
within this Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
Public Art
10. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal Services and
Cultural Services for the provision of public art in accordance with the
City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to provide for security in a form
and amount satisfactory to the aforesaid officials; and provide
development details to the satisfaction of the Public Art Program
Manager (a checklist will be provided).
Note to Applicant: Please call Eric Fredericksen, Public Art Program
Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
11. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection Branch
(EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection and the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 99
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a
remediation agreement for the remediation of the site and any
contaminants which have migrated from the site on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental
Protection, City Engineer and Director of Legal Services, including
a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no occupancy of any
buildings or improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to the City
for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, has been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the
property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of the Land
Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject sites as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning
by-law, approved in principle by Council and described in section (c) of Appendix
B of the policy report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1055 Harwood
Street”, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion
of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 100
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT in Urban Design Condition 5 the words “with the goal of promoting” be replaced
with the words “to promote” and the word “creating” be replaced with the word “create”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03255)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED with Councillor
Jang opposed (Vote No. 03256)
Final Motion as Approved
Changes to the motion from the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing agenda
are noted in bold italics. The wording change in the amendment noted above is also
underlined.
A. THAT the application by Strand Development in conjunction with Intracorp
Projects Ltd., on behalf of the registered owner, Harwood Street Project Nominee
Inc., to rezone 1055 Harwood Street [Lots 12 and 13, Block 12, District Lot 185,
Plan 92; PIDs 015-749-134 and 015-749-142 respectively], from RM-5A (Multiple
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to increase the
permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.20 to 9.95 and the building height from
18.3 m to 91.4 m to permit the development of a 32-storey residential tower
which would contain 44 social housing units and 82 market strata units, generally
as presented in Appendix A of the policy report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning: 1055 Harwood Street” be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by NSDA Architects and received October 5, 2017”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in
(b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning, who
shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the livability, as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 101
(i) For the social housing, increase the size of the indoor common
space to meet Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: The outdoor amenity space size should be
maintained as proposed. Please also refer to relevant conditions
under Affordable Housing.
(ii) For the social housing, reconfigure or remove irregularly-shaped,
under-functioning in-suite storage rooms.
Note to Applicant: Irregular-shaped/sized storage rooms are not
excluded from floor space (refer to Technical conditions). Bulk
storage for studios and one-bedrooms may be relocated to the
parkade level. Bulk storage for family units must be located in-
suite.
(iii) For the market housing, provide approximately 93.0 sq. m
(1,000 sq. ft.) of indoor amenity space, with improved access to
the outdoor space.
(iv) Increase the size of the market outdoor space by deleting or
reducing the water feature, and by reducing the landscape buffer
to Harwood Street to approximately 3.66 m (12 ft.) (measured
from the south property line).
(v) Relocate bulk storage rooms off the exterior wall (i.e. Level 8,
Unit 3).
Note to Applicant: Dimensions and areas of common indoor and
outdoor spaces should be indicated on the drawings. Deleting the
water feature on the west side of the tower will improve access
between the indoor and outdoor amenity spaces for the market
housing, while increasing programmable/useable outdoor space.
Please also refer to relevant Landscape conditions.
2. Design development to improve the interface to the east neighbour, as
follows:
(i) Add a minimum 0.9 m (3 ft.) landscape strip at the east property
line, for the south half of the site (i.e. below the retaining wall).
(ii) Relocate the mechanical shaft a minimum 0.9 m (3 ft.) from the
east property line.
3. Consideration to improve the building elevations, as follows:
(i) Create a change in plane (minimum 12 in.) between the “solid”
podium element (with stone cladding) and the tower base (with
white frame), on the north and south elevations;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 102
(ii) Relocate balconies at levels 29 and 30, to stack above the lower
balconies/shades, on the west and east elevations;
(iii) Integrate further passive design elements, such as shading
devices on the south and west elevations; and
(iv) Revise glazing to reduce reflectivity and a “tinted” appearance
from the unit interiors.
Note to Applicant: It is understood that floorplate size of the podium may
be marginally increased, to accommodate the change in plane in
materials between the podium and tower. Overall floor space should not
be increased. Some or all of these considerations may be resolved in
detailed design development in a future Development Permit application.
4. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any built
features intended to create a bird-friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a design
rationale for the features noted. For more information, see the guidelines
at http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
5. Despite Urban Design Condition of Approval (b)1 further design
development to improve common outdoor spaces for social and
market housing to promote inclusiveness and create improved,
larger contiguous outdoor amenities shared by all residents, and
provide such legal agreements as are necessary to enable sharing,
as follows:
(i) Provide a shared children’s play area for social and market
housing to create an improved and larger contiguous amenity
that may be accessed by all residents (i.e. from market and
social housing) and is commensurate in size with the number
of family units. Additionally, provide weather protected
seating adjacent to the children’s play area to promote an
outdoor space for parental supervision.
(ii) Seek opportunities to provide direct access and clear
sightlines to the children’s play area from a multi-purpose
amenity room that serves as the social housing common
indoor space (consider grade implications in ultimate
location).
(iii) Seek opportunities to combine and relocate common outdoor
seating, gathering areas, and urban agriculture facilities to
create an amenity that is inclusionary to both social and
market housing residents and maximizes solar performance.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 103
Landscape
6. Design development to the ground-floor amenity area to include:
(i) A children’s area and landscape features with natural materials
such as sand, balancing logs, boulders that provide a range of
creative and motor-skills developing play activities (Note: while
play equipment is neither required nor encouraged, natural
materials are preferred to stimulate creativity and exposure to
nature).
(ii) A front yard landscape setback with trees and layered planting,
where space permits.
7. Design development to integrate grades, retaining walls, walkways and
structural design with the architecture to ensure adequate soil volumes;
Note to Applicant: Soil depths should exceed BCLNA Landscape
Standard. To avoid raised planters above grade, at the perimeter of the
building, angle the corner of the underground slab downward (1 m across
and 1.2 m down) to maximize contiguous soil volumes. Wherever
possible, planted landscapes on slab should be designed to maximize
soil depths.
8. Design development to location of utilities.
Note to Applicant: Avoid the awkward placement of utilities (pad-mounted
transformers, “Vista” junctions, underground venting) visible to the public
realm. Every effort should be made to integrate utility access into
structures and behind lockable, decorative gates or screened with
landscaping.
9. Provision of neighbour consent letter, accompanied by a tree removal
permit application, for the removal of neighbour tree # 239.
Note to Applicant: The arborist report recommends removal and states
that the tree is in direct conflict with the proposed development. In the
event that neighbour consent cannot be provided to remove the tree,
then design development will be needed to retain and protect the tree in
a safe and responsible manner. This could have major impacts to the
proposed setbacks to above grade and below grade built form along the
south property line.
10. Retention of the retaining wall and neighbour trees located near the east
property line.
Note to Applicant: The arborist report states that the retention of 10
neighbour trees is dependent upon retention of a retaining wall in close
proximity. Removal of the retaining wall and trees will only be supported
if there is a major design or technical rationale with verification there are
no possible design alternatives available. In such case, a neighbour

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 104
consent letter must be provided granting permission to remove the offsite
wall/trees, and accompanied by a tree removal permit application and
appropriate re-landscape permit application, subject to review. In the
event that neighbour consent cannot be provided, then design
development will be needed to retain and protect the neighbour wall/trees
in a safe and responsible manner. This could have impacts to the
proposed setbacks to above grade and below grade built form along the
east property line.
11. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping;
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8 in.: 1 ft. scale
minimum. The Plant list should include the common and botanical
name, size and quantity of all existing/ proposed plant material.
Plant material should be clearly illustrated on the Landscape Plan
and keyed to the Plant List. The landscape plan should include
the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or
proposed street trees, adjoining walkways, surface materials,
PMT/Vista transformers and public utilities such as lamp posts,
hydro poles, fire hydrants.
(ii) Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4" inch scale) through common open spaces,
semi-private patio areas and the public realm;
Note to Applicant: In tree areas, the sections should illustrate, the
slab design and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree
canopy and any associated landscaping. For private patios and
amenity areas, illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter
sizes (inside dimension), soil, root ball, retaining walls, steps,
patios and portions of the adjacent building, such as residential
units or amenity rooms.
(iii) Application of universal design principles in the outdoor spaces,
such as wheelchair accessible walkways and site furniture;
(iv) Provision of high-efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
hose bibs for bibs for urban agriculture areas (where applicable);
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation connection
points and hose bib symbols accurately and provide a highlighted
note to verify the irrigation is to be designed and constructed.
(v) Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical landscape
structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis); and
(vi) Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 105
Note to Applicant: Consider “CPTED” principles and avoid any lighting that can
cause glare to residential uses.
Engineering
12. The applicant or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent private
property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead
time for any major crane erection/removal or slab pour that requires
additional street use beyond the already identified project street use
permissions.
13. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual
section 02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and
access around existing and future utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be
sought at the building permit stage with final design achievements
certified and confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of
removals and protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
14. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without
any portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of
way.
15. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site improvements
sought for this application. If design details for the off-site improvements
are not available then a note reflecting the requirement is to be placed on
the landscape plan.
16. Please place the following note on the landscape: “This plan is “NOT
FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to Engineering
Services a minimum of eight (8) weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public property
may begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering, Development
Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
17. Provision of consistent drawings as drawings A1.05 and L1.1 are
showing different landscaping layouts and access to the building.
18. Provision of a complete tech table showing the calculations for the
minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the number of
spaces being provided with all stalls numbered and labelled.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 106
19. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to the
bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
20. Provision of an improved plan showing the parking ramp design from the
property line to P1 on one drawing with design elevations and length of
slopes.
Note to Applicant: Currently the ramp design is shown on three separate
drawings.
21. Provision of loading bay design to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. The following items must be
addressed:
(i) Dimension the Class B loading space and any required loading
throat.
(ii) Provide turning swaths for the largest vehicle to service the site
as there is existing landscaping and parking across Maxine Lane
that must be maintained. Show the maneuvering for the vehicle
ingress and egress in three (3) maneuvers or less.
(iii) Provision of a ‘stairs free’ loading access from the Class B
loading space to the social and market elevator cores and show
the access route on the plans. The slope of the loading corridor
must not exceed 5 percent and confirm the use of an elevator, if
required. There seems to be no loading access to the market
residential elevators.
(iv) Provision of an area at the back of the loading space to unload
with direct access into the building.
22. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as follows:
(i) Dimension all stalls and all columns encroaching into parking
stalls.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking ramp
at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, within the parking
levels and at all entrances.
(iii) Provision of gridlines on drawings A101 – A106.
(iv) Provision of parabolic mirrors to improve visibility for two-way
vehicle movement at turns.
Note to Applicant: Mirrors are required on the ramp and at the
southeast corner of all parking levels.
23. Modification of the parking ramp design to address the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 107
(i) The slope must not exceed 10 percent for the first 20 ft. from the
property line.
(ii) 15 percent slopes may be acceptable if a 7.5 percent to 10
percent transition ramp is provided at the bottom for at least 4m in
length. Provide design elevations and ramp lengths on both sides
of the transition ramps to confirm.
24. Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the use of
the parking ramp, if required.
25. Provision minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp, security gates,
and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing elevations, and
vertical clearances. The minimum vertical clearance should be noted on
plans. 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for access and maneuvering
to all disability spaces. 3.5 m of vertical clearance is required for Class B
loading spaces and maneuvering.
26. Note to Applicant: Bicycle storage spaces are to be provided in
accordance with Parking By-law, including locker spaces appropriately
distributed across the market housing and social housing in the
development.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
27. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the issuance of any
development permit, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
28. Design of the development must provide for Neighbourhood Energy
System (NES) compatibility and shall adhere to the following
requirements:
(i) The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system shall be
designed to be easily connectable and compatible with
Neighbourhood Energy to supply all heating and domestic hot
water requirements. Design provisions related to NES
compatibility must be to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall refer to the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards – Design Guidelines for general
design requirements related to NES compatibility at the building
scale. The applicant is also encouraged to work closely with City

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 108
staff during mechanical design to ensure compatibility with a
neighbourhood-scale system. At building permit stage, the
applicant will be required to submit final detailed drawings and a
declaration signed by the registered professional of record
certifying that the Neighbourhood Energy connectivity
requirements have been satisfied.
(ii) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air shall be
provided by hydronic systems without electric resistance heat or
distributed heat generating equipment (including but not limited to
gas fired make-up air heaters, heat producing fireplaces,
distributed heat pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to be
utilized for an energy transfer station connecting the building(s) to
the City-designated NES, as outlined in the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards Design Guidelines, at
development permit.
(iv) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical heating
system at the building permit stage must be to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
29. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition #27, the applicant may
choose, at time of Development Permit, to meet a greenhouse gas
outcome equivalent to connecting to a low-carbon neighbourhood energy
system. This equivalence must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Director of Planning, and may include achieving a 50 percent GHG
reduction from a high-efficiency natural-gas scenario, achieving the GHG
limits of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (last amended
February 2017), or a Certified Passive House.
Note to Applicant: If following the greenhouse gas outcome equivalency
option, the applicant will be required at each stage of permit to submit
energy model results, for review by Sustainability, demonstrating that the
development is on track to achieve the above requirements and what
must be submitted.
Sustainability
30. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements of the
preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended up to
2016), including a minimum of 63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with
1 point for water efficiency and stormwater management and a 22 percent
reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with
registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be submitted as
part of the Development Permit that articulates which credits the applicant
will be pursuing and how their building application, as submitted,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 109
incorporates strategies, features or technologies that will help achieve
these credits. The strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be
incorporated into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED
Accredited Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the application and the
project registration number incorporated into the drawings. Application for
Certification will be required at a subsequent stage.
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
31. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider use of a
legend or key to features on the drawings. Consultation with the social
housing operators and Park Board staff with experience of the more
specific CPTED risks in this area is recommended, and should be
included the response to this condition.
Affordable Housing
32. Design development to remove the heat treatment room from Level 1 of
the social housing portion of the building.
33. Design development to convert the three-bedroom social housing unit on
Level 2 into two (2) accessible units (e.g. a studio and one-bedroom unit)
to allow for exiting at grade in the event the elevator is broken down, or
provision of a second elevator to address accessibility concerns.
Note to Applicant: Provision of 5 percent accessible units is outlined in the
Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
34. Consider relocating the laundry room from Level 1 to Level 2 in the social
housing portion of the building in order to be in close proximity to the
indoor and outdoor amenity spaces.
35. Provision of a minimum of 3.7 sq. m (40 sq. ft.) of in-suite storage,
including a minimum clear horizontal dimension of 1.2 m in all directions,
in all social housing family units (2 and 3 bedrooms).
Note to Applicant: If this cannot be achieved, an additional storage locker
should be provided below grade.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 110
36. Design development to remove washer-dryer closet and hook-up in all
one-bedroom units in the social housing portion of the building.
37. Design development to the Level 1 market housing common amenity
room to add a kitchenette, accessible washroom, and storage space, and
to the adjacent common outdoor amenity deck to allow for a range of
functional programming including an area suitable for children’s play
activity.
Note to Applicant: Please also refer to relevant conditions under
Landscape.
38. Design development to include accessible urban agriculture planters on
the Level 1 market amenity area along with supporting infrastructure
including high efficiency irrigation and /or hose bib, potting bench, tool
storage and compost box.
39. Provide a separate lockable janitor room with floor sink, space for storing
bucket, mops, brooms, vacuum, ladder, supplies for cleaning, shelves for
paper products, light bulbs, etc., appropriately size to adequately meet
the needs of the building. In addition provide two smaller janitor’s closets
that contain a floor sink and storage on levels 3 and 6.
40. Provide separate, lockable mechanical and electrical rooms to safely
accommodate items such as hot water tanks, electrical panels, data lines,
telephone and security equipment panels, gas, water or hydro meters and
any other mechanical or electrical equipment that need to be
accommodated within the building.
41. Provide a minimum 18 vehicle parking spaces, including two accessible
parking spaces, for the social housing units.
Note to Applicant: As part of the DP drawings, clearly mark the provision
of vehicle parking spaces for the social housing units. Please also refer to
relevant conditions under Engineering.
42. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a sign on the
site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that social housing is
being provided as part of the City of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design,
format, and location to be approved by the City.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to the General
Manager of Planning and Development, the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services, the General Manager of Engineering Services, the
Director of Facility Design and Management and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 111
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 12 and 13, Block 12, DL 185, Plan 92 to create a
single parcel.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street
dedications and rights of way for the services are provided. No
development permit for the site will be issued until the security for the
services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow demands
of the project. The current application lacks the details to
determine if water main upgrading is required. Please supply
project details including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler
demand, hydrant load, and domestic water demands to determine
if water main upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100 percent of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Upgrade approximately 585 m of existing 375 mm sanitary sewer
main to 450 mm sanitary sewer main on Pacific Street from
Burrard Street to Jervis Street.
Note to Applicant: The sewer upgrading costs borne by this
project may be reduced should benefiting nearby development
proceed concurrently with this project with the said reduction to
be determined at the sole discretion of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are
to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City
needs in a configuration acceptable by the GMES and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and regulations. A
detailed design will be required prior to the start of any associated
street work. Note: as-constructed documentation will be required
that includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
(iv) Provision of 50 percent of the funding for a new full traffic signal at
the intersection of Harwood Street and Thurlow Street including all
infrastructure adjustments to accommodate the signal installation.
The traffic signal costs borne by this project may be reduced
should benefiting nearby development proceed concurrently with

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 112
this project with the said reduction to be determined at the sole
discretion of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
(v) Provision of funding for up to 22 percent of the total cost for
interim improvements to the intersection of Davie and Burrard to
provide a new traffic signal including a left turn arrow, a left turn
bay and required curb modifications and infrastructure relocation
to accommodate the signal and left turn bay works.
(vi) Provision of repainted paint markings on the existing speed
humps in Maxine Lane between Thurlow and Burrard streets.
(vii) Provision of new and relocated curb and gutter along the site
frontage and transition of the curbing to the east to address the
existing offset in the curb alignment. Work to include any
adjustments to catch basins, extended road paving and
infrastructure to allow the new curbing installation.
(viii) Provision of a minimum 1.83 m (6’- 0”) wide CIP light broom finish
concrete sidewalk with saw-cut joints along the site frontage.
(ix) Provision of upgraded street lighting along the site frontage to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(x) Provision of a bench on private property at the property line facing
Harwood Street and concrete paving between bench and the
sidewalk to provide seating that feels welcoming to the public and
is easily accessible.
(xi) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space permits.
3. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that meets the
objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater Management Plan and
complies with the Sewer and Watercourse Bylaw. The plan shall achieve
the following:
(i) Retain or infiltration of 50 percent of the 6-month storm event
volume (24mm) onsite;
(ii) Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) onsite; and
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 2014 IDF-5 year storm event rate.
Note to Applicant: The post development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
Legal arrangements may be required to ensure the ongoing operation of
certain stormwater storage, rainwater management and green
infrastructure systems.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 113
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest existing
suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be primary
with all electrical plant, which include but not limited to System Vista,
Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including
non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property with no
reliance on public property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with BC Hydro
that an area has been defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has
been allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.
Affordable Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services in
consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services and the Director of Facilities Planning and Development, to
secure the applicant’s obligation to design, build and deliver to the City an
air space parcel containing the social housing units (which comprise no
less than the greater of 4,068.3 sq. m. and 25 percent of the total floor
area of the project) and associated parking and bike storage for such
social housing. The agreement or agreements will include, but not be
limited to, the following:
(i) Total net floor area for the social housing must be at least the
greater of 4,068.3 sq. m. and 25 percent of the total floor area of
the project;
(ii) All associated storage lockers, vehicle and bicycle parking to be
provided is not included in the above net floor area;
(iii) Breakdown of unit types (i.e. studios, one-bedroom units,
two-bedroom units, accessible units, etc.), sizes, parking numbers
and finish specifications must be as per the City’s Family Room:
Housing Mix Policy for Rezoning Projects and High Density
Housing for Families with Children Guidelines;
(iv) Unit design and associated storage and amenity space must be
as per the City’s Family Room: Housing Mix Policy for Rezoning
Projects and High Density Housing for Families with Children
Guidelines; and
(v) The air space parcel for the social housing must be designed to
be as autonomous as possible, with design considerations

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 114
maximizing the efficiency and minimizing the cost of operations
over the life of the project and within the larger development.
(vi) Grant the City an option to purchase, for a nominal purchase
price, the social housing air space parcel, exercisable upon
completion of construction of the social housing.
(vii) Provide that, as a condition of issuance for the Building Permit, a
Letter of Credit will be required in an amount equal to the
estimated cost to complete and deliver the Social Housing Parcel
to the City. This includes the costs to finish and equip, provide all
furnishings and equipment; complete all landscaping, if any; and
cover all soft costs such as consultant design fees and permit
fees for the Social Housing Parcel.
Note to Applicant: All units must be designed and delivered in
compliance with the City’s Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: The value of the Letter of Credit will be determined at
the time of application for a Building Permit for the project.
6. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services to
enter into a Housing Agreement applicable to the social housing air space
parcel for 60 years or the life of the building, whichever is greater, which
will contain the following terms and conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of “social
housing” in the applicable DCL By-law; and
(v) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
7. The In-Kind Affordable Housing will:
(i) be secured by letters of credit (“Amenity LCs”) provided to the City
prior to issuance of the building permit, the amount of which will
be settled as part of the rezoning enactment documents; all LC’s

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 115
will be in compliance with and in the form set out in the City’s
Letter of Credit Policy AF-002-02:
http://citywire.city.vancouver.bc.ca/departments/fs/treasury/docu
ments/Policy-AF00202-LettersofCredit-2016-06-24.pdf; and
(ii) to the extent possible, be built with separate dedicated building
systems so that its operating costs are accounted for and
managed separately from the balance of the respective
development.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) - Cash Payment
8. Payment of the cash CAC of $6,619,470 offered by the applicant, which is
to be allocated to support delivery of the West End Public Benefits
Strategy, with timing of payment on terms as follows:
(i) The cash CAC must be paid on the earlier of the following dates:
a. the date of issuance of the first building permit for the
development; and
b. the date that is 24 months (measured in calendar days)
following the date of rezoning enactment.
(ii) Prior to rezoning enactment, the aforementioned deferred cash
CAC payment will be secured via:
a. delivery of a letter of credit in the City’s required form in the
full amount of the cash CAC (all LC’s will be in compliance
with and in the form set out in the City’s Letter of Credit
Policy AF-002-02:
http://citywire.city.vancouver.bc.ca/departments/fs/treasury
/documents/Policy-AF00202-LettersofCredit-2016-06-
24.pdf; and/or
(iii) A mortgage to be registered against title to the rezoning site in first
place securing the payment of the cash CAC in the timeline noted
above. The Applicant must reimburse the City for all external legal
costs in connection with the granting and registration of the
aforementioned mortgage including, without limitation, due
diligence and documentation costs and such mortgage will accrue
interest at prime plus 3 percent, which interest will be waived and
such security discharged if the cash CAC is paid to the City within
the timeline noted above.
(iv) The City will be entitled to realize on the aforementioned letter of
credit or mortgage (as applicable) if the required cash CAC
payment is not made by the time noted above.
If the Applicant should sell (in whole or in part) its interest in the
development on the Rezoning Lands or shares in the Applicant or

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 116
corporations which hold legal or beneficial interest in the Applicant
or this development, then the City may immediately draw down
the entire remaining balance of the LC or (if applicable) Applicant
must payout (including accrued interest) the aforementioned
mortgages securing the cash CAC payment, upon the closing of
such sale transaction.
The deferred payment and any interest, as applicable, will also be
secured by a Building Permit hold, which will be registered on title
prior to rezoning enactment and, if required, an additional
Occupancy Permit hold for the respective development, to be
released only on confirmation of receipt by the City of the full
amount of the total Cash CAC Balances (plus interest, if
applicable).
Local Buyers First
9. The Applicant’s voluntary commitment to support residents who live or
work in Metro Vancouver by giving them the first opportunity to purchase
new pre-sale homes in the new development on the Rezoning Lands,
which includes the following:
(i) For the first 30 calendar days after the launch of the “pre-sales
marketing campaign” for this development (or each phase of the
development, if applicable, the “Exclusive Local Buyer Period”),
only those who live or work in Metro Vancouver will be eligible to
purchase homes in this development, and all such buyers will be
required by the Applicant to sign a statutory declaration attesting
that they live or work in Metro Vancouver and intend to occupy the
unit they are purchasing.
(ii) The text of the statutory declaration will be agreed upon in
advance of the rezoning enactment by the Applicant and the City’s
Director of Legal Services.
(iii) There shall be no foreign marketing during this Exclusive Local
Buyer Period.
(iv) No buyer shall be allowed to purchase more than one (1) unit
within this Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
Public Art
10. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal Services and
Cultural Services for the provision of public art in accordance with the
City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to provide for security in a form
and amount satisfactory to the aforesaid officials; and provide
development details to the satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager
(a checklist will be provided).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 117
Note to Applicant: Please call Eric Fredericksen, Public Art Program
Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
11. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection Branch
(EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a
remediation agreement for the remediation of the site and any
contaminants which have migrated from the site on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental
Protection, City Engineer and Director of Legal Services, including
a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no occupancy of any
buildings or improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to the City
for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, has been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the
property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title
Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject sites as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THATthe Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning
by-law, approved in principle by Council and described in section (c) of Appendix
B of the policy report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1055 Harwood
Street”, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 31, 2018 118
of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
7. REZONING: 1445-1455 West Georgia Street - WITHDRAWN
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 9:39 pm.
* * * * *