REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JULY 25, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was
held on Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at 9:39 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Andrea Reimer, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*, Vice-Chair
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie*
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager (Item 12)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council adopt items 4 - 11 and 16, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 2
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with Item 14 prior to Item 3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillors Ball, De Genova and Mayor Robertson absent)
Note: for clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
1. Presentation – 2018 Greenest City Action Plan Implementation Update
The Director of Sustainability presented a progress report on the 2018 Greenest City Action
Plan (GCAP) and, along with staff from Engineering Services and GCAP Goal owners,
responded to questions.
2. Sea Level Rise Planning Update
June 26, 2018
The General Managers of Engineering Services; Development, Buildings & Licensing; and
Planning, Urban Design & Sustainability, along with staff from the Sustainability Group,
responded to questions.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive the Administrative Report dated June 26, 2018, entitled
“Sea Level Rise Planning Update”, for information regarding the key outcomes of
the Coastal Flood Risk Assessment project and proposed next steps in
implementing coastal flood protection in the City’s vulnerable areas.
B. THAT Council instruct staff to prepare and bring forward for consideration for
referral to public hearing amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law to
establish requirements for safe and flood resilient development in flood plains
with applicable policies, guidelines and any consequential by-law amendments.
C. THAT Council direct staff to develop by-laws, regulations, and policies to guide
the design of engineered shoreline flood protection such that it is adaptable and
built to a consistent performance standard.
D. THAT Council approve up to $500,000 in funding from the City’s 2018 Innovation
Fund, contingent upon securing matching external funds, to support the
implementation of a sea level rise design challenge that will engage local,
national, and international experts, residents and businesses to develop
implementable, cost-effective and holistic solutions for the City’s most
flood-vulnerable areas.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03226)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 3
14. Parking By-law Updates to Achieve Transportation 2040 Actions
June 25, 2018
Staff from Parking Management reviewed the report and, along with the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Transportation, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support and two speakers in opposition to the report.
Concerns expressed included the proposed removal of minimum residential parking
requirements Downtown and the lack of public consultation.
* * * * *
At 11:56 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 11:59 am and reconvened at 1:33 pm.
* * * * *
Staff from Engineering Services responded to questions regarding concerns expressed by some
of the speakers.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward changes to the Parking By-law
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 25, 2018,
entitled “Parking By-law Updates to Achieve Transportation 2040 Actions”, that
advance City policy to reduce or eliminate some minimum parking requirements,
and increase requirements and opportunities for bicycle parking, passenger
loading, and transportation demand management in new development.
B. THAT Council endorse the Transportation Demand Management Administrative
Bulletin presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 25, 2018,
entitled “Parking By-law Updates to Achieve Transportation 2040 Actions”, for
immediate policy implementation.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back with recommendations on the priority
actions outlined in the Policy Report dated June 25, 2018, entitled “Parking
By-law Updates to Achieve Transportation 2040 Actions”.
amended

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 4
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT COUNCIL refer the recommendations included in the Parking By-Law Updates to
Achieve Transportation 2040 Actions report back to staff for further consultation with the
City of Vancouver Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee and the City of
Vancouver Seniors’ Advisory Committee and report back to staff with any
recommendations after staff report back to Council with recommendations for the
Accessible City Strategy.
LOST (Vote No. 03236)
(Councillors Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson
opposed)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the motion be amended to add D as follows:
D. THAT Council direct staff to consult with the City of Vancouver Persons
with Disabilities Advisory Committee and the City of Vancouver Seniors’
Advisory Committee and report back to Council with any further parking
by-law recommendations after staff report back to Council with
recommendations for the Accessible City Strategy.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03246)
(Councillors Affleck and De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 03238), with Councillors Affleck and De Genova opposed, and Councillor Ball absent
for the vote.
3. Updates to Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large Developments
June 25, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council adopt a new policy entitled “Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large
Developments”, generally as described in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
June 25, 2018, entitled “Updates to Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large
Developments”, to replace the existing policy of the same name.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03242)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 5
4. Contract Award for the Supply and Delivery of Fuels
July 5, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering Services, City’s Director of Legal Services, and
the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into a contract with Suncor Energy
Products Partnership, for the supply and delivery of fuels for a term of five (5)
years, with the option to extend for two (2) additional one (1) year terms, with an
estimated contract value of $25,184,535 plus applicable taxes over the initial five-
year term, based on current rates and volumes. Expenditures from the contract
for 2019 and beyond will be requested as part of the annual budget process, with
the purchases occurring as if and when needed.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of the City
the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03227)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)
5. Contract Award for ITT PS20171180 Vancouver Landfill Entrance Upgrades, Main
Works
June 25, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with BD Hall
Constructors Corp., for the Vancouver Landfill Entrance Upgrades, Main Works,
for a term of approximately ten (10) months, with an estimated contract value of
$8,999,563.73, plus applicable taxes over the ten (10) month term, to be funded
through the Multi-Year Capital Project Budget.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of the Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of the
City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03228)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 6
6. 2019 Licence Fee Increase Report
June 26, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle amendments to the License By-Law No.4450
and Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066 as follows:
i. Increases in vehicles for hire and business licence fees, generally in
accordance with Appendix A and Appendix B of the Administrative Report
dated June 26, 2018, entitled “2019 Licence Fee Increase Report”;
ii. Increases in business licence fees for Marina operators who host
live-aboard boats, reflecting an increase in residential property taxes in
2018, as indicated in Table 1 of the above-noted Administrative Report.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the necessary
amendments to By-law Numbers 6066 and 4450, generally in accordance with
the fee schedules attached to the Administrative Report dated June 26, 2018,
entitled “2019 Licence Fee Increase Report”, to be effective January 1, 2019.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03229)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)
7. 760 Pacific Boulevard - 1155246 BC Ltd - Harbour Convention Centre - Liquor
Primary Liquor Licence and Outdoor Patio Application - Liquor Establishment
Class 6 – Venue
June 29, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council, having considered the opinion of area residents and business operators
determined by neighbourhood notification, site sign, noise impacts and relevant Council
policy as outlined in the Administrative Report dated June 29, 2018, entitled “760 Pacific
Boulevard – 1155246 BC Ltd - Harbour Convention Centre - Liquor Primary Liquor
Licence and Outdoor Patio Application - Liquor Establishment Class 6 - Venue”, endorse
the request by 1155246 BC Ltd (Harbour Convention Centre) for an event driven Liquor
Primary, with an interior capacity of 2,434 person (Liquor Establishment Class 6 - Venue)
and a 75 person outdoor patio located at 760 Pacific Boulevard subject to:
i. A maximum interior capacity of 2,434 persons and a 75 person outdoor
patio;
ii. Hours of operation, limited to 11 am to 1 am, Sunday to Thursday and 11
am to 2 am, Friday and Saturday;
iii. The outdoor patio ceasing all liquor service and vacated by 11 pm nightly;
iv. No music or entertainment permitted on the patio;
v. Liquor service is event-driven and only permitted in conjunction with
pre-booked events;
vi. A Time-Limited Development Permit;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 7
vii. An acoustic report to be submitted certifying that the establishment meets
Noise Control By-law requirements; and
viii. Signing a Good Neighbour Agreement with the City prior to business
licence issuance.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03230)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)
8. 2018 Annual Inflationary Adjustments to Development Cost Levies (DCLs), and
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) Targets
June 29, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the 2018 inflationary rate adjustments for the
Vancouver (City-wide) Development Cost Levy (DCL) and Area Specific DCL
By-law Districts, with new rates to be effective September 30, 2018, as shown in
Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated June 29, 2018, entitled “2018
Annual Inflationary Adjustments to Development Cost Levies (DCLs), and
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) Targets”;
FURTHER THAT Council maintain the existing Vancouver (City-wide) DCL
By-law rates and Area Specific DCL By-law rates for artist studio, community
centres/neighbourhood house, library, public authority use, social service centre,
parking garage, temporary building, school, childcare, community energy centre,
and works yard uses; and
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Vancouver DCL By-law No. 9755 and the Area
Specific DCL By-law No. 9418 to implement the 2018 inflationary rate
adjustment, as shown in Appendix B and Appendix C of the above-noted
Administrative Report.
B. THAT Council approve the 2018 inflationary rate adjustments for Community
Amenity Contribution (CAC) targets, with new target rates to be effective
September 30, 2018, as shown in Appendix D of the Administrative Report dated
June 29, 2018, entitled “2018 Annual Inflationary Adjustments to Development
Cost Levies (DCLs), and Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) Targets”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03231)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 8
9. Contract Award for the Supply and Delivery of Water Meters
July 5, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering, City’s Director of Legal Services, and the City’s
Chief Procurement Officer and enter into two (2) separate contracts with
(i) KTI Limited/Sensus Canada(“KTI”) and (ii) Neptune Technology Group
(“Neptune”), for the supply and delivery of water meters, each for a term of three
(3) years, with the option to extend for two (2) additional one (1) year terms, with
an estimated combined contract value of $2,389,000 (KTI contract value at
$1,823,000 and Neptune contract value at $566,000), plus applicable taxes over
the initial three-year term, current Multi-Year Capital Budgets and 2018 Annual
Capital Expenditure Budget are available for the 2018 planned expenditure. The
expected expenditure from the contract for 2019 and beyond will be requested as
part of the 2019 (and future) Capital budgets.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Engineering be authorized to execute on behalf of the City the
contracts contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contracts are executed by the authorized
signatories of the City.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03232)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)
10. 2019 Animal Services Licence Fee Increase Report
July 10, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle amendments to the Animal Control By-law
No. 9150 as follows:
i. Increases in dog licence and animal service fees, generally in accordance
with Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled
“2019 Animal Services Licence Fee Increase Report”.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the necessary
amendments to By-law Number 9150, generally in accordance with the fee
schedule in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled
“2019 Animal Services Licence Fee Increase Report”, to be effective
January 1, 2019.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03233)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 9
11. 1171 Jervis Street and 1345 Davie Street - Social Housing Operator Selection and
Lease Terms
July 6, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve Vancouver Native Housing Society (VNHS) as the
selected non-profit partner to operate:
i. the 27 unit Social Housing Air Space Parcel located at 1171 Jervis Street
and legally described as PID: 029-631-785, Lot 355, Plan EPP426205,
District Lot FC NWD Group 1 (the “Social Housing Building”); and
ii. the future Air Space Parcel containing 68 social housing units at
1345 Davie Street currently legally described as PID: 030-275-768, Lot 1,
Block 14, District Lot 200A Group 1 New Westminster, Plan EPP53535
(the “ASP”).
B. THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management to negotiate and execute a lease and operating agreement with
VNHS for 1171 Jervis Street, on terms and conditions as outlined in the
Administrative Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “1171 Jervis Street and
1345 Davie Street - Social Housing Operator Selection and Lease Terms”, and
otherwise satisfactory to the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management, General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services,
General Manager of Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management and Director
of Legal Services, and including:
i. a term of 60 years;
ii. a lease payment of $1.85 million to be paid to the City by the end of the
first year of operation;
iii. all 27 social housing units to be rented at affordability targets as outlined
in the above-noted Administrative Report;
iv. adherence to the Service Level Agreements;
v. all operating surplus generated from the project to be: first, used to fund
an operating reserve up to an amount equal to the previous fiscal year’s
operating budget; and second, divided equally between the City and
VNHS with VNHS ‘s portion to be used, with agreement from the City, to
increase affordability within the project or to create or acquire net new
affordable housing within the City of Vancouver;
vi. the operator to provide insurance required by the City of Vancouver; and
vii. a requirement to pay a proportionate share (to be negotiated and defined
within the Reciprocal Easement and Indemnity Agreement) of
maintenance and replacement costs for common aspects of the
respective developments.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 10
C. THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management to negotiate and execute a lease and operating agreement with
VNHS for the Social Housing Air Space Parcel (ASP) at 1345 Davie Street on
terms and conditions as outlined in the Administrative Report dated July 6, 2018,
entitled “1171 Jervis Street and 1345 Davie Street - Social Housing Operator
Selection and Lease Terms”, and otherwise satisfactory to the General Manager
of Real Estate and Facilities Management, General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services, General Manager of Finance, Risk and Supply Chain
Management and Director of Legal Services, and including:
i. a term of 60 years;
ii. a lease payment of $4.95 million to be paid to the City by the end of the
first year of operation;
iii. all 68 social housing units to be rented at affordability targets as outlined
in the above-noted Administrative Report;
iv. adherence to the Service Level Agreements;
v. all operating surplus generated from the project to be: first, used to fund
an operating reserve up to an amount equal to the previous fiscal year’s
operating budget; and second, divided equally between the City and
VNHS with VNHS ‘s portion to be used, with agreement from the City, to
increase affordability within the project or to create or acquire net new
affordable housing within the City of Vancouver;
vi. the operator to provide insurance required by the City of Vancouver; and
vii. a requirement to pay a proportionate share (to be negotiated and defined
within the Reciprocal Easement and Indemnity Agreement) of
maintenance and replacement costs for common aspects of the
respective developments.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations shall arise or be created by A through C
above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and delivered
by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03234) AND
B AND C BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)
* * * * *
At 2:23 pm, Councillor De Genova declared Conflict of Interest on a portion of Item 12 as an
immediate family member is employed with the Vancouver Police Department (VPD) and that
she would not be participating in any discussion or decision in relation to the VPD budget.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 11
12. Final 2019-2022 Capital Plan & Plebiscite Questions
July 12, 2018
At the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, Vancouver City Council received a
presentation on the Final 2019-2022 Capital Plan & Plebiscite Questions and referred the report
to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 25, 2018, in order
to hear from speakers.
The General Managers of Arts, Culture and Community Services; Finance, Risk and Supply
Chain Management; and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with staff from these
departments, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the Capital Plan as proposed, but two of
the speakers also raised concerns in relation to the relocation of the City Archives to the Central
Library, and one of the speakers requested the Capital Plan include funding to renovate the
Firehall Arts Centre.
The Committee also heard from one speaker who commented on other matters in relation to the
Capital Plan.
In response to additional questions, staff agreed to provide more information in relation to park
space and childcare facilities.
The Committee agreed to separate the components of the motion for the vote.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A1. THAT Council approve the 2019-2022 Capital Plan for Public Safety – Police cars
of $18.2 million as outlined in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
July 12, 2018, entitled “Final 2019-2022 Capital Plan & Plebiscite Questions”,
with anticipated funding from tax & fee funded capital reserves.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03239)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A2. THAT Council approve the 2019-2022 Capital Plan totalling $2.8 billion as
outlined in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 12, 2018, entitled
“Final 2019-2022 Capital Plan & Plebiscite Questions”, and summarized as
follows:
Affordable housing $ 540 million
Childcare $ 123 million
Parks & open spaces $ 264 million
Arts & culture $ 185 million
Community facilities $ 234 million
Public safety $ 48 million
Civic facilities & equipment $ 108 million
Transportation & street use $ 311 million
One water $ 616 million

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 12
Solid waste $ 92 million
Renewable energy $ 41 million
Technology $ 100 million
Emerging priorities $ 88 million
Overhead $ 20 million
with anticipated funding from the following sources:
City contributions ($1,049 million):
Plebiscite authority $ 300 million
Council authority (utilities) $ 195 million
Debt financing $ 495 million
Property tax $ 206 million
Utility fees $ 202 million
Pay-as-you-go City contributions $ 408 million
Tax & fee funded capital reserves $ 146 million
Development contributions ($1,615 million):
Development connection fees $ 110 million
In-kind development contributions $ 569 million
Pay-as-you-go development contributions $ 679 million
DCLs and cash CACs reserves $ 936 million
Partner contributions ($107 million):
Pay-as-you-go Partner contributions $ 95 million
Partner funded reserves $ 12 million
B. THAT the 2019-2022 Capital Plan borrowing plebiscite contain three questions
as follows:
Transportation and Technology………………………..$ 100,353,000
Capital Maintenance and Renovation Programs for Existing
Community Facilities, Civic Facilities and Parks…. $ 99,557,000
Replacement of Existing Community Facilities and
Civic Facilities………………………………………... $ 100,090,000
$ 300,000,000;
FURTHER THAT the wording of the questions be generally as set out in
Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated July 12, 2018, entitled “Final
2019-2022 Capital Plan & Plebiscite Questions”, subject to any modifications
required by the Director of Legal Services to ensure consistency with the
requirements of the Vancouver Charter.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03240)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 13
13. Sustaining Affordable Non-Profit Housing on City Land
July 17, 2018
On July 24, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 25, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
Staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services responded to questions.
The registered speaker for this item was not present.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Site and Lease Options, Key Terms and Guidelines
for ground lease extension or redevelopment, and the Methodology for Valuation
of a Pre-paid Ground Rent within the Non-Profit Lease Framework for Sustaining
Affordable Non-Profit Housing on City Land as contained in Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated July 17, 2018, entitled “Sustaining Affordable
Non-Profit Housing on City Land”.
B. THAT Council authorize staff to:
1. Negotiate future ground lease(s) with non-profit operators in accordance
with the Options, Key Terms, and Ground Rent Valuation contained in
Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 17, 2018, entitled
“Sustaining Affordable Non-Profit Housing on City Land”; and
2. Report back to Council on each individual non-profit housing lease for
approval.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
1. THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for a
lessee or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
2. THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03243)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 14
15. Mandatory Green Roofs
On July 24, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 25, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the motion.
The following motion contains changes to the original Motion on Notice which were accepted by
the Committee.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Climate change is predicted to produce wetter winters, hotter, drier
summers, and more extreme rainstorms in the Vancouver area, which the
City’s infrastructure was not built to accommodate. Climate change
impacts are already being felt in Vancouver and are accelerating;
2. Green roofs mitigate climate change impacts. They absorb greenhouse
gas emissions (GhGs), absorb rainwater, reduce stormwater volumes,
peak flows and related flooding, and reduce GhGs related to heating and
cooling (buildings currently account for over 50 percent of Vancouver’s
GhG emissions);
3. Green roofs contribute to a better quality of life. They reduce the urban
“heat island” effect, insulate buildings from summer heat and winter cold,
provide more comfortable indoor temperatures year-round, insulate
buildings from noise, and improve air quality by absorbing particulates
and pollutants. They provide a more natural visual aesthetic for residents
and workers in multi-storey buildings looking down on the roofs of other
buildings, an increasingly common reality for many Vancouverites;
4. Green roofs can offer opportunities for urban agriculture, support
biodiversity and provide urban habitat for wildlife struggling to cope with
changing weather patterns, including birds and pollinating insects such as
bees and butterflies;
5. Green roofs save money by reducing the costs to heat and cool buildings,
extending the life expectancy of a roof by double or triple the time, and
lowering the municipal costs of managing storm water runoff;
6. Green roofs were identified as one possible policy direction for
Vancouver’s “Rain City Strategy”, a strategy in development for deploying
green infrastructure to effectively manage rainwater and included in the
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan best management practice
toolkit;
7. Cities such as Toronto, San Francisco, and Copenhagen already require
green roofs on all new commercial, institutional, industrial and multi-family
residential developments.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 15
A. THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT, as part of the Rain City Strategy, staff
bring back a policy, developed in consultation with industry and community, that
requires green roofs where they help Vancouver meet its objectives such as
resilience, food production, climate change adaption (including heat, cooling and
water management), biodiversity or energy management in new commercial,
institutional, industrial and multi-family residential developments and to provide
maximum opportunity for green roofs in renovations to older commercial,
institutional, industrial and multi-family residential development.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion be amended to add B as follows:
B. THAT staff include in the report noted in A above any recommendations,
as well as information concerning the impact green roofs may have on
affordability and building maintenance costs for new commercial,
institutional, industrial and multi-family residential developments, and
renovations.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03244)
(Councillor Stevenson abstained from the vote)
Note: Section 145.1 (3) of the Vancouver Charter states “A member of Council present at the
meeting at the time of the vote who abstains from voting is deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
The amendment having carried unanimously, the main motion as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03245).
16. Support for the Kettle Society and the City of Vancouver’s Commitment to
Resources for Mental Health, Ending Homelessness and Supportive Housing
On July 24, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 25, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
As the speaker for this item withdrew their name from the Speaker’s List, the item was adopted
on consent.
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Established over forty years ago, the Kettle Society provides 26 supportive
services including over 200 units of supportive housing, a transition house for
women and mental health drop-in centre to 5000 individuals facing mental health
issues in Vancouver;
2. The Kettle Society also advocates and raises awareness for mental health
issues, breaking down barriers and working against stigma of mental illness and
promotes the inclusion of people living with mental illness in the community;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 16
3. Vancouver is facing a housing and affordability crisis and appropriate housing
can be more difficult to find for individuals facing mental health issues and who
require supportive housing;
4. Published in 2014, The Mayor’s Task Force for Mental Health and Addictions put
forward 23 priority actions. The first recommendation “Work Better Together and
Address Service Gaps” states “The City’s role includes work in the areas of
housing, services provided through community centres, libraries, funding
non-profit organizations which provide outreach and peer supports”;
5. On September 25, 2012, the final report from the Mayor’s Task Force on Housing
and Affordability was presented to City Council. The section titled
“The Challenge” acknowledges “The Task Force recognizes that homelessness,
low income and supportive housing continue to be critical issues facing
Vancouver.” Furthermore, the report recommends “Housing and Homelessness
Strategy: Housing Continuum.” The Strategy lists “Supportive Housing” as one of
the three categories listed under “Ending Homelessness”;
6. Vancouver’s Housing and Homelessness Strategy 2012-2021 recommends in
Section six, titled “Implementation and Performance” under “Ending
Homelessness” on the Housing Continuum “Supportive Housing: number and
location of new units.” The report also acknowledges and states “The majority of
homeless have mental health and addiction issues;
7. The City of Vancouver’s 10 Year Affordable Housing Delivery and Financial
Strategy (2018-2027) states “Housing Vancouver further sets ambitious new
targets for social and supportive housing, identifying the needs for 12,000 new
units of social and supportive housing over the next 10 years.” The introduction
to the report states that 4,640 units of social and supportive housing have been
approved. The report goes on to state “However, the need remains significant
and lessons from the past decade have demonstrated that meeting our new
enhances targets will require sustained partnerships and re-focused approaches
to affordable housing delivery”;
8. On June 5, 2018, the Policy Report titled “Affordable Housing Delivery and
Financial Strategy and Annual Progress Report and Housing Vancouver Data
Book” was delivered to Council. The Report Summary acknowledges that social
and supportive housing are the most challenging housing units to deliver, as the
greatest level of subsidy and investment required;
9. The Kettle Society worked in partnership with a development partner for seven
years towards providing 30 units of supportive housing of integrated community
living for individuals with mental illness. The plan for the project also included an
expanded drop-in centre, which would allow the Kettle to meet their needs for
more space to serve more people with mental health issues on a daily basis;
10. On June 19, 2018, The Kettle Society and Boffo Projects publicly announced the
cancellation of the project, concluding in their public remarks at the time that the
project was financially unviable.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 17
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirm support for The Kettle Society as a non-profit organization
that serves thousands of people annually and provides resources to individuals
and families facing mental health issues and homelessness in the City of
Vancouver.
B. THAT Council direct staff to work with The Kettle Society to consider potential
opportunities for The Kettle Society to move forward with their longstanding plans
to develop an expanded drop-in centre and at least 30 units of community
integrated supportive housing for individuals struggling with mental health issues
and homelessness in Vancouver.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03235)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent)
The Committee adjourned at 5:48 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JULY 25, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
July 25, 2018, at 5:48 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and
actions of the Committee, and other items on the agenda.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Presentation – 2018 Greenest City Action Plan Implementation Update
2. Sea Level Rise Planning Update
3. Updates to Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large Developments
4. Contract Award for the Supply and Delivery of Fuels
5. Contract Award for ITT PS20171180 Vancouver Landfill Entrance Upgrades, Main Works
6. 2019 Licence Fee Increase Report
7. 760 Pacific Boulevard - 1155246 BC Ltd - Harbour Convention Centre - Liquor Primary
Liquor Licence and Outdoor Patio Application - Liquor Establishment Class 6 – Venue
8. 2018 Annual Inflationary Adjustments to Development Cost Levies (DCLs), and
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) Targets
9. Contract Award for the Supply and Delivery of Water Meters
10. 2019 Animal Services Licence Fee Increase Report
11. 1171 Jervis Street and 1345 Davie Street - Social Housing Operator Selection and
Lease Terms
12. Final 2019-2022 Capital Plan & Plebiscite Questions
13. Sustaining Affordable Non-Profit Housing on City Land
14. Parking By-law Updates to Achieve Transportation 2040 Actions

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 25, 2018 2
15. Mandatory Green Roofs
16. Support for the Kettle Society and the City of Vancouver’s Commitment to Resources for
Mental Health, Ending Homelessness and Supportive Housing
Items 1 - 16
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of July 25, 2018, as contained in items 1 to 16, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
ITEM 11 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted Leave of Absence for Personal Reasons from
the Public Hearing to be held September 14, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to authorize questions for the assent of electors regarding the 2019 – 2022
Capital Plan (By-Law No. 12202)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 5:50 pm.
* * * * *