REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 24, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 24, 2018,
at 9:40 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
PUBLIC NOTICE – Mayor Robertson advised that pursuant to Section 164.1(2) of the
Vancouver Charter, public notice is hereby given that Council will give consideration to amend
Procedure By-law No. 9756 at the Regular Council meeting on September 18, 2018.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 2
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed
by the city;
(b) personal information about an identifiable individual who is being considered for an
award or honour, or who has offered to provide a gift to the city on condition of
anonymity;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to business
interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – July 10, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of July 10, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 3
2. Public Hearing – July 10 and 12, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of July 10 and 12, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
3. Regular Council (City Finance and Services) – July 11, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting of July 11, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
4. Public Hearing – July 17, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of July 17, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
5. Public Hearing – July 18, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of July 18, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 4
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
The Mayor noted requests to speak to Administrative Report 7 and Policy Report 10 had been
received.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council refer the following two reports to the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at 9:30 am, to hear from
speakers:
• Administrative Report dated July 17, 2018, entitled “Sustaining Affordable
Non-Profit Housing on City Land”;
• Policy Report dated June 25, 2018, entitled “Parking By-law Updates to Achieve
Transportation 2040 Actions”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council adopt Communication 1, Administrative Reports A1 to A3, A6, A8 to A11,
Policy Reports P1, P2, P4, P5, P7 to P9, P11 and Other Report 1, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Final 2019-2022 Capital Plan & Plebiscite Questions
The Mayor noted Council would hear the presentation on the above-noted matter and
discussion and decision, as well as hearing from speakers, on the related Administrative Report
was scheduled for the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at 2 pm.
Grace Cheng, Director, Long-term Financial Strategy and Planning, provided a presentation on
the 2019-2022 Capital Plan, including the process, the City’s portfolio of infrastructure and
amenities, public engagement and civic boards, the final Capital Plan, and financial strategy.
Ms. Cheng, along with staff from Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability, Engineering, the City Manager’s Office, Arts, Culture and
Community Services, and the City Manager, responded to questions.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 5
* * * * *
Prior to the start of the Council meeting it was agreed to deal with Unfinished Business (UB)
Item 2, followed by UB-4 to 6, followed by UB-1, then UB-3.
Note: This order of items was due to previous motions passed while referring items as
Unfinished Business.
For ease of reference the minutes are recorded in numerical order.
* * * * *
Vary Agenda
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with UB-3 prior to UB-1;
FURTHER THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with Motions on Notice B2
and B4, prior to UB-3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Note: For ease of reference the minutes are recorded in numerical order.
* * * * *
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. REZONING: 777 Pacific Boulevard – Sub-area 10C (1 Robson Street)
On July 12, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, at 2 pm, as
Unfinished Business.
Councillor Ball advised she had not reviewed the proceedings she had missed and would not be
participating in discussion and decision on this matter.
Councillor Bremner declared conflict of interest on this matter as he has a personal relationship
with a member of the applicant team. He left the meeting at 2:52 pm and did not return until
4:41 pm, after the item was dealt with.
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a presentation and responded to
questions.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 6
* * * * *
During debate, Council recessed at 3:25 pm and reconvened at 3:40 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, on behalf of B.C. Pavilion Corporation, to rezone a portion of 777
Pacific Boulevard [PID: 029-173-825; Lot 347 False Creek Plan EPP31476] from
BCPED (BC Place/Expo District) to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District
to permit the development of a mixed-use building with commercial and
residential uses. The proposal is for a maximum floor area of 37,161 sq. m
(400,000 sq. ft.) and a maximum building height of up to 121.9 m (400 ft.)
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 777 Pacific Boulevard – Sub-area 10C (1 Robson
Street)”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed preliminary form of development be approved by
Council in principle, generally as prepared by Stantec Architecture, on
behalf of B.C. Pavilion Corporation (PavCo) and the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and stamped “Received
Planning Department, January 23, 2018”, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow alterations to this preliminary form of development
when approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b)
below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
Owner/Developer shall obtain approval of a development application by
the Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development in accordance with the General Policy for
Higher Buildings (if applicable) to establish a significant and
recognizable new benchmark for architectural creativity and
excellence, while making a significant contribution to the beauty
and visual power of the city’s skyline, and demonstrating
leadership in sustainable design and energy consumption towards
the city’s objective for carbon neutrality.
Note to Owner/Developer: This building will be reviewed in
accordance with the General Policy for Higher Buildings if any
height and mass is proposed that extends into the Cambie View
Cones 9.1 and 9.2.2 (approximately 300 ft.) or the Queen

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 7
Elizabeth View Cone 3.2.3. Refer to the General Policy for Higher
Buildings for more information regarding the requirements.
2. Design development to shape and sculpt the tower at upper levels
to establish a dialogue between the three towers that together
form the Georgia Gateway and to take full advantage of the city
skyline shaping opportunity this presents.
Note to Owner/Developer: Particular consideration should be
given to the skyline set against the mountain backdrop as viewed
from the origins of the Cambie View Cones 9.1 and 9.2.2 and the
Queen Elizabeth View Cone 3.2.3, as well as other vantage points
along Cambie Street.
3. Design development to ensure that the development of Sub-area
10C supports Georgia Street as the prime ceremonial street in the
city and a pivotal piece in connecting the downtown to False
Creek.
Note to Owner/Developer: While the preliminary concept
establishes the basis for the active streetscape sought along the
south edge of Georgia Street, further consideration should be
given to the detailed design and relationship between the
proposed stair core, supporting structures, and the public realm at
the juncture of Georgia Street and Pacific Boulevard, including
whether the exit core could be pulled further back from the corner
and integrated into the interior of the building base. Further
consideration should also be given to the design and activation of
the north side of Georgia Street and coordination and integration
with evolving concepts for connections between other adjacent
developments and Georgia Street. In general, accommodation
and successful integration of exiting from the stadium, the
proposed building, and the underground parking are all areas that
will require careful consideration and design development as the
design progresses, with particular regard for CPTED principles.
4. Design development to ensure integration and coordination of the
Phase 1 parking structure with the Georgia Ramp and the public
realm it supports.
Note to Owner/Developer: A plan and strategy is needed for the
interim treatment of the Phase 2 area ensuring appropriate
pedestrian circulation and landscape treatment should there be a
delay or uncertain timing between the implementation of the
Georgia Ramp and the construction of the tower and its base.
5. Design development to ensure the acoustical performance of the
building considering its immediate adjacency to the stadium and
location in the Events and Entertainment District of NEFC.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 8
Note to Owner/Developer: Outline strategies in the building design
to achieve the required noise levels outlined in the CD-1 By-law.
6. Provide an Acoustical Design Strategy prepared by professionals
in acoustic and mechanical engineering outlining approaches in
the building design to achieve the requirements under the
acoustics section of the proposed CD-1 By-law and draft Design
Guidelines with the development permit application, meeting the
following performance criteria:
(a) Noise isolation design strategies and passive and/or
mechanical cooling;
(b) Mitigate event noise to achieve noise levels between 40
dBC and 50 dBC within the units during event periods; and
(c) Ensure summertime internal thermal comfort levels in line
with ASHRAE 55 v. 2010 or newer (with windows closed).
Note to Owner/Developer: Building orientation and construction
must mitigate as much as possible events in major facilities and
outdoor spaces which will produce high levels of noise, particularly
base noise (dBC), on a regular basis, and for significant periods of
time.
7. As part of the development permit application, the
Owner/Developer must take measures, including covenants on
title for initial and future purchasers, and notices in rental
agreements, inclusion in marketing and disclosure documents,
and signage on buildings, to notify residents that their dwelling unit
is located in an Events and Entertainment District and to advise of
anticipated noise levels.
Landscape Design and Sustainability
8. Design development to the overall structural design to ensure
adequate soil volumes and planting depths for plants and trees,
intensive green roof terraces and extensive green roofs.
Note to Owner/Developer: To ensure the long-term viability of
planting on slab and exposed upper roof conditions, soil
depths must meet or exceed BCLNA planting standards. Consider
the following:
(a) Angling the slab at the junction of the outer wall and ceiling
of the underground parkade;
(b) Lowering the slab below plaza level to create contiguous
tree planting troughs such that the tree base is level with

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 9
the surrounding walking surfaces. The soil volume targets
should be considered at a minimum of 12 m3 (cylindrical
planters) or 16 m3 (rectangular planters), with 1 m depth
and 2 m radially (measured from the trunk). Private and
semi-private terraces should offer planter sizes and soil
volumes that can support long term tree health and canopy
cover;
(c) Soil cells, structural or enhanced native soils and
contiguous planting troughs should be explored.
(d) Fully integrated planters should be provided, rather than
add-on movable planters;
(e) Avoid the necessity to mound soils to obtain minimum soil
depths; and
(f) Further details of a successful strategy will be required at
the development permit stage.
9. Design development to the sustainable site strategy and
landscape plan (private property) to include the following:
(a) A robust tree canopy replacement and layered planting
plan at the ground level, upper levels, amenity areas and
private terraces;
(b) Extensive green roof coverage, wherever possible;
(c) Explore opportunities for green walls, in appropriate
locations, rather than blank expanses of exterior wall; and
(d) Strategies to maximize free or open-grade to allow for
greater vegetated canopy growth and diversity. Increased
areas of free-grade will allow infiltration of rainwater into
the sub-soils. Raingardens and water features should be
integrated into a rainwater management plan.
Note to Owner/Developer: Pull back or chamfer slab
wherever possible for a greater amount of permeable area
within the property lines.
10. Design development to reduce or eliminate potable water use in
the irrigation systems by using drought tolerant species, rainwater
harvesting methods and efficient irrigation technology for all
planted areas.
Note to Owner/Developer: Potable water may be considered for
urban agriculture areas and patios. Individual hose bibs should be

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 10
provided for all patios of 9.3 m3 or greater in size, to encourage
patio gardening.
11. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings at a minimum, including
all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Owner/Developer: The Owner/Developer will be required
to demonstrate that the development is on track to achieve the
above requirements at each permitting stage. For more detail on
the above requirements and what must be submitted at each
stage, refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements.
12. Indicate how the proposal will exceed the applicable city policies
for Green Buildings and whether the project will be pursuing the
Near Zero Emissions or the Low Emissions pathway under the
policy.
Note to Owner/Developer: Completion of the applicable checklist
by the project energy modeller, showing that the project meets the
performance limits for energy use, heat loss, and greenhouse gas
emissions, together with key inputs will be required at the time of
development permit application.
13. Indicate how the development will meet the General Policy for
Higher Buildings through the development permit process, if
applicable.
Note to Owner/Developer: If the proposed building exceeds 91.4
m measured from base surface the General Policy for Higher
Buildings will be applicable and the development will be subject to
all the requirements of the policy such as but not limited to:
building energy consumption, connection to a low-carbon heat and
cooling source, review by a panel of design and sustainability
experts. See Urban Design Condition (b)1.
14. Design development to ensure that no habitable spaces or critical
infrastructure is located below a flood construction level of 4.8 m
GVRD datum (also known as CGVD28 datum) as prescribed in
“Flood Construction Levels and Regulations related to Designated
Flood Plains” in the Vancouver Building By-law No. 10908, or the
approved Northeast False Creek Plan or as per policy at the time
development application, whichever is higher.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 11
15. Submit a letter of credit, prior to the issuance of the development
permit, to the General Manager of Engineering Services for
assurance of the Post Occupancy Study (POS) completion, for the
following:
(a) Provision of a “Post Occupancy Study” (POS) three (3)
years following the issuance of an occupancy permit for
each building to the satisfaction of the Director of
Sustainability.
Note to Owner/Developer: Including but not limited to data,
tables, graphs and other analytic tools to best illustrate
sustainability trends in the development including but not
limited to: annual energy demand, building systems
efficiency, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, per capita
potable water use history, resident thermal comfort,
transportation mode splits, local food assets and rainwater
management systems.
(b) Provision of a letter to the satisfaction of the Director of
Sustainability from each Strata Council confirming receipt
of a Building Operation Manual within six months of
issuance of the occupancy permit that documents
specifications, operations, and maintenance requirements
of systems including but not limited to: heating, ventilation,
green roofs, rainwater management and irrigation.
Note to Owner/Developer: As per the Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings – Process and Requirements
commissioning process, the following items must be
provided to the Owner:
• The final Commissioning Report
• Operating and maintenance manuals
• Training for operators or building managers
• A digital copy of the full Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) Manuals, a full PDF set of building as-built
drawings, a copy of the Building Information Modeling
(BIM) files if applicable, and the final building energy
model file.
16. Establish ongoing, in-person educational and technical support
services to building managers, strata, residents and businesses to
help achieve sustainability success.
Note to Owner/Developer: Consider using a “Greencierge” to help
align the development to relevant City policies like Greenest City,
Zero Waste 2040 and Transportation 2040. Refer to NEFC Plan,
section 11.5.4 for more information on the “Greencierge”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 12
17. Comply with the Bird Friendly Operational Guidelines found here:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentC.
pdf. Design and indicate in drawings where elements of the Bird
Friendly Operational Guidelines are applied.
Note to Owner/Developer: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design
Guidelines for examples of built and landscape features that may
be applicable, and provide a design rationale for the features
noted. For more information, see the guidelines at:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentB.
pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentC.
pdf
Engineering Services
18. Clarification is required as to how the utility duct bank across
Pacific Boulevard will be impacted (see E&IA R92193 – Ex. Plan
18545X).
19. The Owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal
or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
20. Compliance with the parking and loading design supplement and
bicycle design supplement.
21. Provision of a Green Mobility plan including:
(a) Enhanced access for bicycles including separation from
vehicle access;
(b) Enhanced security Class B bicycle parking for visitors;
(c) Enhanced end of trip facilities for non-residential class A
bicycle parking;
(d) Car share vehicles beyond those required to meet the
Parking By-Law requirements;
(e) Shared vehicle memberships and complimentary driving
time for building residents and workers;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 13
(f) Transit incentives for residents including ongoing subsidies
for transit passes;
(g) Automatic door openers along the access route to bicycle
parking spaces; and
(h) Other innovative transportation interventions that seek to
further understanding of how green transportation
infrastructure, incentives, programs and other contribute to
people’s transportation choices;
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services, or such other set of Green Mobility plan items that are
acceptable to the General Manager of Engineering Services.
22. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that
meets the objectives of the City’s Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Water
Course By-law, the plan shall achieve the following objectives:
• Retain or infiltrate the 6-month storm event volume (24 mm)
onsite
• Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite
• Maintain the pre-development 10-year storm event rate. The
pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF curve,
whereas the post development estimate shall use the 2100
IDF curve to account for climate change.
Note to Owner/Developer: Legal agreements may be required to
ensure on-going operations of certain stormwater storage,
rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
23. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual, Section 02596 and Encroachment By-law No.
4243, Section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent to the site.
Note to Owner/Developer: Detailed confirmations of these
commitments will be sought at the building permit stage with final
design achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Contact
Engineering Services for details.
24. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 14
25. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but are not
limited to, System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch. The Owner/Developer may be
required to show details of how the site will be provided with all
services underground.
26. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up garbage
without reliance on lanes or street for extended bin storage.
27. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for the rezoning, including the following
statement to be placed on the landscape plan.
Note to Owner/Developer: The landscape plan is to be noted as
“NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of
any construction proposed for public property. No work on public
property may begin until such plans receive “For Construction”
approval and related permits are issued. Please contact
Engineering Development Services and/or your Engineering
Building Site Inspector for details.
28. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the issuance
of any development permit, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
29. All buildings in the development shall connect to a City-owned
low-carbon NEU, should one be available for connection as
determined by the General Manager of Engineering Services prior
to development permit issuance, and shall adhere to the following
requirements:
(a) The heating and hot water system of all buildings in the
development shall be designed to be easily connectable
and compatible with Neighbourhood Energy to supply all
heating and domestic hot water requirements; design
provisions related to Neighbourhood Energy compatibility

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 15
must be to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
Note to Owner/Developer: The Owner/Developer shall
refer to the Energy Utility System By-law No. 9552 and
Neighbourhood Energy Utility Building Connection
Guidelines (2016) for specific design requirements, which
includes provisions related to the location of the
mechanical room(s), centralization of mechanical
equipment, pumping and control strategy, and other
hydronic heating and domestic hot water system minimum
requirements. The Owner/Developer is encouraged to
work closely with Staff to ensure adequate provisions for
NEU compatibility are provided for in the mechanical
design. As a pre-condition to building permit, the City will
conduct a peer design review of the building’s connection
to the NEU to ensure that the Neighbourhood Energy
connectivity requirements have been satisfied.
(b) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air
shall be provided by hydronic systems without electric
resistance heat or distributed heat generating equipment
(including but not limited to gas fired make-up air heaters,
heat producing fireplaces, distributed heat pumps, etc.)
unless otherwise approved by the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
(c) Provide for 21 m2 of dedicated space on the P1 level to be
utilized for an energy transfer station connecting the
building(s) to the City-owned low-carbon Neighbourhood
Energy System (NES), as outlined in the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards – Design Guidelines, to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services; and
(d) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical
heating system at the building permit stage must be to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
Environmental Contamination
30. Shall remediate all contamination to meet Provincial requirements
and in a manner that meets current Provincial standards.
31. Shall obtain and submit to the City copies of all contamination
studies and the consequential remediation plan(s), approved by
the Province (or any certified professional in accordance with the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 16
BC Environmental Management Act or regulation thereto), in
respect to the Development Site 10C Remediation Lands.
32. Shall meet the terms and conditions of Sub-area 10C Utility
Design, Remediation and Occupancy Restrictive Agreements.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered Owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the City Manager, the Director of
Legal Services, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering Services and the
Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
Owner/Developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Provision of a statutory right-of-way over a portion of the Rezoning
Site in favour of the City for road and maintenance purposes to
accommodate the construction and existence of the Georgia
Ramp and a Ramp Construction Agreement, all to the satisfaction
of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
Note to Owner/Developer: The right-of-way for the Georgia Ramp
should include provisions for utilities, pedestrian spaces and
concourses.
2. A subdivision strategy must be provided to the City for review and
subdivision will be required to create the Rezoning Site;
alternatively, at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services, it
may be possible to define the rezoning site with a Reference Plan.
3. Enter into and registration of a Road Proximity Agreement over
the Rezoning Site, including permitting the City and any permittee
or licensee of the City to gain access to the Rezoning Site and any
buildings and improvements located thereon, to conduct any
required work including bringing materials on to the Rezoning Site
to allow for the future reconstruction of Pacific Boulevard and
Georgia Ramp related to the removal of the Dunsmuir and/or
Georgia Viaducts, while working with BC Place operators to
minimize impact on operations.
4. Enter into and registration of a Site Modification Agreement for the
modification of the site to meet future grades to connect the site to
the new Pacific Boulevard and Georgia Ramp if the Dunsmuir
and/or Georgia Viaducts are removed at the sole cost and
expense of the Owner/Developer.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 17
5. Enter into a Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services, the Director of
Legal Services for the granting of rights for the City to provide
access between properties east of the new Georgia Ramp, to the
easterly length of the Georgia Ramp, which is subject to the right-
of-way, as if the right-of-way was a dedicated City street. The
right-of-way will include a provision for a license to third-parties for
construction and maintenance.
Note to Owner/Developer: The right-of-way will include a provision
for a license to third-parties for construction and maintenance,
which may include Rogers Arena.
6. Enter into an agreement to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services for a Site Parkade Agreement for the construction of the
site parkade prior to the construction of the Georgia Ramp at the
sole cost and expense of the Owner/Developer.
Note to Owner/Developer: The agreement should establish
phasing and funding, construction responsibilities of the parkade
as well as specifications to support the infrastructure demands for
the Georgia Ramp.
7. All Legal Notations, non-financial charges, liens, and interests
registered on title to the lands which may affect this application
must be evaluated to determine whether they impact the proposed
development. The Owner/Developer’s lawyer must submit to the
City a title summary containing the following information:
(a) A copy of the current certificate of title for Lot 347;
(b) A summary of the contents of each Legal Notation, non-
financial charge, lien or interest on title containing a
general description of the issues addressed by the
document. The summary must also provide the lawyer’s
opinion as to whether the Legal Notation, charge, lien or
interest will impact the application, and if so, how; and
(c) A copy of all Legal Notations, non-financial charges, liens
or interests which may impact the application.
8. Clarification is required as to how the stadium water chambers will
be addressed since they will be impacted by the proposal (see
SRW R92190 – SRW Plan 18542).
9. Execution of a floodplain covenant for the Rezoning Site.
10. Arrangements for easements in favour of Remainder Lot 348 Plan
EPP26177, ASP1, ASP2, and ASP3 Plan EPP35220 (Rogers

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 18
Arena) to accommodate the Georgia Ramp connections to the
Rogers Arena site.
11. Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services to ensure that a traffic plan is established to
maintain access for loading, vehicles, patrons and pedestrians
during and after construction on the street network (see
Appendix H of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 777 Pacific Boulevard — Sub-area 10C
(1 Robson Street)”).
Note to Owner/Developer: Engineering staff will continue to work
with BC Place operators to implement the traffic plan (see
Appendix H of the above-noted report).
12. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary for connection to a City-owned
low-carbon NEU, which may include but are not limited to
agreements which:
(a) Require buildings within the Rezoning Site to connect to
the City-owned low-carbon NEU;
(b) Grant the operator of the City-owned low-carbon NEU
access to the building(s) mechanical system and thermal
energy system-related infrastructure within the Rezoning
Site for the purpose of enabling NEU connection and
operation, on such terms and conditions as may be
reasonably required by the Owner/Developer; and
(c) Grant use of and access to suitable space within the
Rezoning Site required for the purposes of an energy
transfer station, to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
Note to Owner/Developer: The development will be required to
connect to the City-owned low-carbon NEU prior to occupancy if
the General Manager of Engineering Services deems a
connection is available and appropriate at the time of development
permit issuance; if connection is required, the Owner will be
prohibited from entering into any third-party energy supply
contract for thermal energy services, unless otherwise approved
by the by the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Environmental Contamination
13. Submit a completed Site Profile or Site Profile Exemption Form
certifying that the Rezoning Site is exempt from the requirement to

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 19
submit a Site Profile and providing the basis for that exemption
with documentation from the Province satisfactory to the City
Manager.
14. Do all things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary by the City to fulfill the requirements of Section 571 (B)
of the Vancouver Charter on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the City Manager.
15. Execute agreements to the satisfaction of the City Manager,
Director of Legal Services, and PavCo, substantively similar in
form and intent to the those Agreements, including the Utilities
Design Agreement and Soils Remediation Agreement, on the
PavCo owned site on the westside (Sub-area 10A) of the PavCo
owned BC Place lands as applicable and, without limiting the
foregoing but with reference to, that:
(a) Meets Provincial Standards provided for under the Pacific
Place Approach, and if applicable, as determined by the
Ministry of Environment, any additional requirements of the
Environmental Management Act; and
(b) Addresses the remediation and/or management of
contamination on the rezoning site and related site
servicing lands in accordance with the BC Place Upgrade
Commitment Agreement.
16. Enter into an Sub-area 10C Remediation Occupancy Restrictive
Agreement, satisfactory to the City Manager, including a Section
219 Covenant that there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the Rezoning Site until applicable Provincial
Instruments of Approval certifying that all remediation has been
completed and confirmation provided to the City and that all
obligations under the Sub-area 10C Remediation Agreement and
Sub-area 10C Utility Design Agreement have been met to the
satisfaction of the City.
Planning
17. Execute an Inner-City Local Employment and Procurement
Agreement between the Owner/Developer and the City identifying
and committing to targets across the life-cycle of the development
project.
Public Art
18. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 20
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy and the NEFC Public
Art Plan, such agreement to provide for security in a form and
amount satisfactory to the aforesaid officials, and provide
development details to the satisfaction of the Public Art Program
Manager.
Note to Owner/Developer: Please call Eric Frederickson, Senior
Cultural Planner, 604-871-6002, to discuss your application.
Note to Owner/Developer: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the consequential amendment to the False Creek North Official
Development Plan, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 777 Pacific Boulevard – Sub area 10C
(1 Robson Street)”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise
Control By-law No. 6555, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 777 Pacific Boulevard – Sub-area
10C (1 Robson Street)”.
D. THAT the following conditions be added to the Conditions of Approval as set out
in the summary and recommendation of the public hearing agenda:
Under (b), Conditions of Approval of the Form of Development:
“Housing
33. If at the time of the submission of a development permit application the
owner/developer applies for a building with a height in excess of 91.4 m

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 21
and the permit is approved by the Development Permit Board or the
Director of Planning, the owner/developer will make arrangements to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter into a Housing
Agreement, including a Section 219 Covenant, with the City, pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter, securing all dwelling units in the
building, as secured market rental housing for the longer of 60 years or
the life of the building, which includes the following conditions:
(i) a no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) a no stratification covenant;
(iii) that none of the dwelling units will be rented for less than one
month at a time; and
(iv) such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services may in their sole discretion require.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing
Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property owner(s) and their
mortgagee(s) prior to issuance of the development permit.”
And under (c), Conditions of By-law Enactment:
“Housing
19. The Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare a Section 219 No
Development Covenant be executed by the property owner and the City
and registered on title to the Rezoning Site prior to enactment of the CD-1
By-law contemplated by the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 777 Pacific Boulevard – Sub-area 10C (1 Robson
Street)”, which Covenant restricts the issuance of a development permit
for any building with dwelling uses on the Rezoning Site that has a height
in excess of 91.4 m except in compliance with D above.”
E. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment a revised CD-1 By-law to provide that the Development Permit Board
may only permit an increase in the maximum building height to 121.9 m if, in
addition to the conditions already set out in the draft Section 5.2, that a housing
agreement is entered into that designates all the residential units on the property
as secured market rental housing, together with any consequential revisions to
the draft CD-1 By-law and by-law to amend the False Creek North Official
Development Plan set out in B abovethat may be required to give effect to the
foregoing.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
Owner or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 22
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03173)
(Councillors Affleck, Carr and De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Ball ineligible to vote)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote due to conflict of interest)
2. REZONING: 3123-3129 West Broadway Street (Hollywood Theatre)
On July 17, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished
Business.
Councillors Ball, Jang and Stevenson advised they had reviewed the proceedings they had
missed and are therefore eligible to vote on this matter.
* * * * *
During discussion, it was
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with UB-4 prior to completing UB-3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Note: For ease of reference, the minutes are recorded in numerical order.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council bring forward for enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of
the Vancouver Charter, a by-law to designate the exterior, and certain elements
of the interior, of the Hollywood Theatre (the “heritage building”) at 3123-3129
West Broadway [PID: 006-767-966, Lot H Block 54, District Lot 540, Plan 20212;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 23
PID: 015-450-384 Lot 9 except part in Plan 4166, Block 54, District Lot 540, Plan
229; PID: 015-450-414 The East ½ of Lot 10, Except the north 5 feet now lane
and part in Plan 4166, Block 54, District Lot 540, Plan 229], (the “site”), as
protected heritage property.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment under Section 592 of the Vancouver Charter a by-law for the City to
enter into a Heritage Revitalization Agreement to:
(i) secure the rehabilitation and long-term preservation of the
heritage building; and
(ii) vary the Zoning and Development By-law as necessary to permit
a new six storey mixed use building to be constructed on the site,
and to restrict the use of the heritage building to theatre use only,
as proposed under Development Permit Application Number
DP-2018-00039 (the “DP Application”) and as more particularly
described in the Policy Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled
“REZONING: 3123-3129 West Broadway Street (Hollywood
Theatre)”.
C. THAT the Heritage Revitalization Agreement shall be completed, noted,
registered, and given priority on title to the site to the satisfaction of the Director
of Legal Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design, and
Sustainability.
D. THAT A, B, and C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03169)
3. TEXT AMENDMENTS: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law and
Building By-law – Accessible Path of Travel Policy Review
At the Public Hearing on July 18, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers, and
following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred discussion and decision on the
above-noted matter to the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business,
starting at 2:00 pm.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 24
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law as follows:
(i) In Section 10:
a. require a minimum of 20% of all dwelling units in new townhouse,
stacked townhouse and rowhouse developments, on sites with a
frontage of 27.4 m or greater in any district including a CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to provide an accessible
path of travel from the street to an entrance;
b. permit the Director of Planning to relax the minimum 20%
requirement in A (i) a., or the height requirement in the appropriate
district schedule to the extent necessary to allow the minimum
requirement to be met, or both, where compliance would result in
unnecessary hardship due to conditions peculiar to the site or to
the proposed development; and
c. for one-family dwellings and two-family dwellings, with or without a
secondary suite, on sites with a frontage of 10.06 m or less, permit
a floor area exclusion of 0.5% to regain the amount of usable
space available prior to the introduction of the adaptability
provisions in the 2014 Building By-law.
(ii) In Section 11.24:
a. require new laneway houses with at least 40 sq. m of habitable
floor area on the ground floor and on a site with a frontage of
15.3 m or greater, to provide an accessible path of travel from an
on-site parking space or the street, where feasible, to an entrance;
and
b. permit the Director of Planning to relax the requirement for an
accessible path of travel in A (ii) a. where compliance would result
in unnecessary hardship due to conditions peculiar to the site or to
the proposed development.
(iii) In Section 3.2.1(g), enable the Director of Planning to relax requirements
for yards, setbacks, site coverage, permeability, building depth and side
door entrances to enable ramps, lifts, at-grade entries or other enhanced
accessibility features for townhouse, stacked townhouse or rowhouse
units not in combination with an apartment building.
B. THAT Council amend the Building By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law and Building By-law - Accessible Path of

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 25
Travel Policy Review”, to update adaptable housing requirements to align with
the proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law.
C. THAT, subject to approval of A and B above, Council direct staff to amend the
Enhanced Accessibility Guidelines and all other relevant Guidelines with design
considerations for townhouse, stacked townhouse and rowhouse units, and
laneway houses to align with the approved by-law amendments.
D. THAT, subject to approval of A and B above, Council direct staff to monitor the
development of visitable/adaptable dwelling units in coordination with the
development of a potential City-wide Accessibility Strategy and report back on
further recommended improvements as necessary.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
LOST (Vote No. 03172)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson,
and Mayor Robertson opposed)
4. TEXT AMENDMENTS: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law –
Laneway Home Regulations
At the Public Hearing on July 18, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers, and
following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred discussion and decision on the
above-noted matter to the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT Council approve amendments the Zoning and Development By-law,
generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018,
entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law – Laneway Home
Regulations”, to:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 26
(i) repeal Section 11.24 (Laneway House) in its entirety and substitute the
revised regulations to make it easier and more cost effective to build
laneway houses and to improve livability of laneway houses; and
(ii) amend Section 10.33.2 to update a reference to Section 11.24.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the amending by-law, Council repeal the Laneway
Housing Guidelines.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03168)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
5. REZONING: 4175 West 29th Avenue (St. George’s Senior School)
At the Public Hearing on July 18, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers, and
following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred discussion and decision on the
above-noted matter to the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Perkins and Will on behalf of the St. George’s School
Foundation, the registered owner, to rezone 4175 West 29th Avenue
[PID: 025-453-254; Parcel 100, Block 292, District Lot 140, Group 1, New
Westminster District Plan BCP420] from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling) to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the redevelopment of the St.
George’s Senior School campus, increase the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to
18.9 m (62 ft.), allow for accessory staff and student housing, and introduce a
maximum student enrolment, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4175 West 29th Avenue
(St. George’s Senior School)”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
Conditions of approval of the form of development
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Perkins and Will and received
January 12, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to provide and include a phasing plan for
proposed future development including staging and sequencing of

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 27
projects, and a timeline for ultimate completion.
2. Design development at the time of the first Development
Application to include the provision of landscape improvements for
edge treatments, sidewalk improvements and open spaces. In the
event that any of the foregoing are at odds with construction
methods, provision of a design for interim conditions of public
realm must be provided.
Note to Applicant: See draft CD-1 Design Guidelines for 4175
West 29th Avenue (St. George’s Senior School). This condition is
to ensure that the site is generally maintained in a reasonable and
finished state to ensure that the impact of construction and staging
has controlled and limited impact on the neighbourhood and
adjacent sites.
3. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the building
is encouraged in the application for a development permit from the
standpoint of both architectural, building design, in addition to
landscape design methods that support positive environment for
bird habitat.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
4. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for the following:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings.
Landscape Design
5. Provision of master plan document updates at time of the first
development permit, and at each successive development permit
application, as follows:
(i) Updated master plan(s) to depict new buildings and open
space, demolition/ removal of existing structures,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 28
temporary uses (for example, sports fields), construction
staging, traffic/parking, tree removal protection and
timelines for phasing (where possible);
(ii) Updated rainwater management plan/calculations for the
complete site and applicable requirements for each
development permit;
(iii) Updated arborist report and tree management plan;
(iv) Updated construction management plans, including
access, storage, temporary uses;
(v) Updated utility plans (utility planning should be proactive to
avoid conflicts with tree protection zones and open space);
and
(vi) Updated LEED score sheet and necessary rainwater
management reports.
6. Consideration to create accessible, functional green roofs used for
educational opportunities, respite, access to nature and sunlight.
7. Design development to maximize at grade tree planting and to
integrate habitat and rainwater strategies within the grading and
open space plan.
8. Further proactive coordination with regard to area wide watershed
management, such as Musqueam Creek watershed and Metro
Vancouver.
9. Design development to maximize the retention of trees to the
perimeter of the site, with particular attention to avoiding impacts
to established trees.
Note to Applicant: While the drawings indicate that established
mature trees have been integrated into the proposal, further
consideration at the development permit stage will be needed to
ensure that all mitigating options for retention have been explored.
Further arborist information and detailed plans will be needed to
inform decisions. Measures may be needed to mitigate impacts to
offsite trees, such as tree # 263. There should be very limited
interventions proposed in the root protection zones of mature tree
stands. To respect tree root zones and to avoid canopy pruning,
alterations to built form and limitations to re-landscaping may be
requested. Coordination with Park Board/ Engineering will be
needed for retention decisions on City property.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 29
10. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen utilities in
a manner which minimizes the impact to the open space design
and public realm.
11. Design development to the Integrated Rainwater Management
Strategy to explore opportunities for onsite rain water infiltration,
as follows:
(i) Maximize landscape based best management practices;
(ii) Minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water
storage, except where this may be co-located beneath a
sports field or a roof surface;
(iii) Increase the amount of planting to the rooftop areas,
where possible;
(iv) Consider linear infiltration bio-swales along property lines;
(v) Use permeable paving on slabs and at grade;
(vi) Employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever
possible); and
(vii) Use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage
areas.
Note to applicant: refer to the City of Vancouver Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP) Volume I and Volume II for
further information. A consulting engineer (subject matter expert)
will need to be engaged and early phase soil analysis will be
needed. Further comments may be outstanding at the
development permit stage.
12. At the development permit submission stage:
(i) Provide plans, plan details and documentation/calculations
that support integrated rainwater management, including
absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and detention
systems, as follows:
a. Detailed storm water report with calculations
describing how the various best management
practices contribute to the quality and quantity
targets;
b. A separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic
grading indicating intent to direct rainwater to
infiltration zones;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 30
c. A detailed landscape grading/drainage plan; and
d. An overlay plan that shows amount and ratio of
vegetative cover (green roof),
permeable/impermeable hardscaping and notations
describing the storage location of rainwater falling
on each surface, including roofs.
Note to Applicant: Water balance calculations that
assume soil volumes are receiving rainwater will
only be valid if water falls directly on the soil or is
directed from hard surfaces to the respective
infiltration zones.
(ii) Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and
hard landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1’. scale
minimum. The Plant List should include the common and
botanical name, size and quantity of all existing/ proposed
plant material. Plant material should be clearly illustrated
on the Plan and keyed to the Plant List. The landscape
plan should include the public realm treatment (to the curb)
and all existing or proposed street trees, adjoining
walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista transformers and
public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire
hydrants.
(iii) Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross
sections (minimum 1/4" scale) through common open
spaces, rooftop patio areas, tree protection zones and the
public realm.
Note to Applicant: For landscapes on buildings, the
sections should illustrate the structure design, soil profile,
tree root ball, tree canopy and any associated landscaping.
For rooftop amenity areas, illustrate and dimension
planters on slab, planter sizes (inside dimension), soil, root
ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and portions of the
adjacent building.
(iv) Provision of a phased Tree Management Plan.
Note to applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree
management plan (rather than a separate tree removal
plan created by the landscape architect) become the
primary document for tree removal/ protection related
matters. Attach the large scale tree management sheet (at
the same size sheet as the architectural plans) to the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 31
landscape plan submissions for each phase at the
development permit stage.
(v) Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include
signatures by the owner, contractor and arborist.
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties
are aware of the roles and responsibilities and that the
project is on track to satisfy the steps and
recommendations outlined by the arborist, as needed. For
example, advanced planning will be needed to ensure that
certain works, such as site supervision checkpoints, are
coordinated.
(vi) Submission of construction phase arborist reports, as
needed, submitted to the Chief Building Official and the
Landscape Planner in a timely manner subsequent to pre-
scheduled arborist supervision visits.
(vii) Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas
on slab, including urban agriculture areas and individual
hose bibs for green roof areas.
Note to Applicant: provide a separate irrigation plan (one
sheet size only) that illustrates symbols for hose bib and
stub out locations. There should be accompanying written
notes on the same plan and/or landscape plan describing
the intent and/or standards of irrigation.
(viii) Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development
site, where applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the
development permit plans and confirmed prior to the
issuance of the building permit. Contact Eileen Curran,
Streets Engineering (604.871.6131) to confirm tree
planting locations and Park Board (604.257.8587) for tree
species selection and planting requirements. Provide a
notation on the plan as follows, "Final spacing, quantity
and tree species to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with
approved root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil.
Root barriers shall be 2.4 m (8 ft.) long and 0.5 m (1.5 ft.)
in. Planting depth of root ball must be below sidewalk
grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree planting
completion".

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 32
(ix) Provision of enlarged detailed elevations/sections for all
vertical landscape structures and features (i.e. green walls,
trellis).
(x) Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Consider “CPTED” principles and avoid
any lighting that can cause glare to residences. Refer also
to the CD-1 Design Guidelines for 4175 West 29th Avenue
(St. George’s Senior School).
(xi) Incorporation of the principles of the City of Vancouver
Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for the protection,
enhancement and creation of bird habitat and reduction of
potential threats to birds.
Note to Applicant: Refer also to Condition 3.
Sustainability
13. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing buildings
on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition waste
(excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of each
development permit application.
14. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements of
the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended
up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63 points
(LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of each development permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their building
application, as submitted, incorporates strategies, features or
technologies that will help achieve these credits. The strategy,
along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated into the
drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional
or Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns
with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the application
and the project registration number incorporated into the
drawings. Application for Certification will be required at a
subsequent stage.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 33
15. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 21, the applicant
may choose to meet the requirements of the Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
16. Provision of a Green Mobility Plan to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. Provide the following
measures or other items as part of the Green Mobility Plan:
(a) Subsidized transit passes for students and staff;
(b) Cycling education and training for staff and students on an
ongoing annual basis;
(c) Bicycle repair station;
(d) Enhanced cycling end of trip facilities;
(e) Reserved Carpooling spaces for staff;
(f) Rapid charging station for electric vehicles;
(g) Shuttle buses; and
(h) School buses.
17. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
18. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual Section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
No. 4243, Section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site. Current construction practices
regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk
during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems.
Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the
building permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
Note to Applicant: The owner or representative is advised to
contact Engineering to acquire the project’s permissible street use.
Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation
and construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or
sourcing adjacent private property to construct from) and be

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 34
aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection / removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
19. Provision of an adjusted crossing location on Camosun Street to
avoid removal of any existing street trees. A crossing application
is required and design approval of the crossing is required prior to
issuance of the related development permit.
20. A pedestrian connection is required from the school bus drop-off
area to the new school buildings.
21. Provision of a detailed landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for this site as part of the full development
application.
22. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
23. Design development to provide ‘stairs free’ loading access from
the loading spaces to the elevator cores and the various uses
within the buildings.
24. Design development to provide all Class A bicycle spaces to be
located on the P1 parking level or at grade.
25. Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside and note on plans.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
26. Design development to provide on-site bus drop-off spaces that do
not require the buses to back up.
27. Provision of improved plans showing the required maneuvering for
the Class B loading and school bus drop-off spaces.
28. Design development to provide parking, loading and bicycle
spaces that meet the requirements of the Parking By-law and the
Parking and Loading Design Supplement.
Note to Applicant: As there is no detailed information in the
rezoning package, please ensure that the future development
permit plans meet these by-law and design requirements.
29. Provision of updated transportation studies at future development
permit applications for the site.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 35
Low Carbon Strategy
30. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the issuance
of any development permit, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
31. Design of the development shall adhere to the following general
requirements:
(i) Prior to issuance of development permit, the applicant
must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services, that the approach to site
heating and cooling will reduce the development’s
greenhouse gas emissions at buildout by a minimum of
50% relative to a business as usual (“BAU”) (where BAU
assumes high-efficiency natural gas boilers for space
heating, ventilation, and domestic hot water heating, and
chillers and/or cooling towers for any space cooling
requirements).
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to
demonstrate that the development is on track to achieve
the above GHG reduction requirement at each stage of
permit.
(ii) The applicant must provide the following for approval by
the General Manager of Engineering Services, prior to
issuance of building permit:
a. Detailed Design of any Low Carbon Energy
System(s) including but not limited to building
HVAC, mechanical heating system and domestic
hot water system;
b. Demonstrated compliance with minimum design
requirements outlined in the Performance
Monitoring & Reporting Requirements for Low
Carbon Energy Systems (updated February 2014
or later), to enable energy metering and the
monitoring of performance metrics during system
operation for the purpose of optimizing system
performance and preparing system performance
reports; and
Note to Applicant: A proposed energy system
Performance Monitoring and Reporting Plan shall
be submitted at the time of building permit
application for approval by the General Manager of

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 36
Engineering Services prior to building permit
issuance. The applicant shall refer to the City of
Vancouver Performance Monitoring and Reporting
Requirements for Renewable Energy Systems for
further instructions on performance monitoring and
reporting.
c. Written verification by a qualified engineer,
confirming that the energy system is designed to
provide low carbon energy such that the
development will meet the mandated GHG
performance limits.
Zero Waste Planning
32. Provide a Zero Waste Design and Operations Plan at the time of
development permit, and updated with each successive
development permit application, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services, as described in the Rezoning
Policy for Sustainable Large Developments.
Note to Applicant: The Zero Waste Design and Operations Plan
should have a site/development infrastructure design component
and an ongoing operations/maintenance component. The
document should be structured so as to replicate all of the
numbered headings and sub-headings of the Zero Waste Design
and Operations Plan and meaningfully address each of these
headings.
Social Policy
33. Provide a Sustainable Food System Plan to include a minimum of
three food systems assets as described in the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, to the satisfaction of the
Director of Social Policy.
Note to Applicant: The application identifies the following food
assets that can count towards the required three food assets that
must be delivered as part of the development. The three identified
food assets are (1) edible landscaping, (2) community gardens,
and (3) on-site organics management. The following comments
outline ways to strengthen the submission:
(i) Edible landscaping:
a. Provide more details on the location and design of
the edible landscaping.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 37
b. Explore education and training opportunities in the
gardens for students and connect such programs to
the school kitchen/cafeteria.
(ii) Shared garden plots:
a. Provide more details on the location and design of
shared garden plots.
b. Student shared gardening areas should reference
and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and
should provide maximum solar exposure, universal
accessibility and provide amenities such as raised
beds, water for irrigation, potting benches, tool
storage, and composting.
(iii) On-site organics management:
a. Additional details will be required, including, at a
minimum: location, type of machine, and
management structure.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangement for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Provision of a minimum 1.83 m (6.00 ft.) wide statutory right of
way (SRW) adjacent to the entire east property line of the site to
accommodate a public use sidewalk. The final location and SRW
width to be determined at the development permit stage.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 38
(i) Provision of a 1.83 m (6.00 ft.) CIP light broom finish
concrete sidewalk with saw cut joints located on private
property on the west side of Camosun Street along the
site, including curb ramps at West 27th Avenue and West
28th Avenue.
(ii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent the site on
West 29th Avenue and Camosun Street. A review of the
existing lighting is required to determine its adequacy and
upgraded lighting is to be provided where required.
Note to Applicant: The proposed sidewalk on Camosun
Street may require separate lighting given its proximity to
the existing lighting on Camosun Street.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(iv) Provision of geometric and parking regulation changes
adjacent to St. George’s Senior School to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Engineering Services. The
Traffic Study recommends that all school drop-off by
private vehicles be facilitated on 29th Avenue and
Camosun Street, where currently some student
drop-off occurs on site. The Traffic Study is also proposing
changes to allow additional pick-up and drop-off on 29th
Avenue by the eastern driveway crossing. A further
detailed review of the parking signage and geometric
changes, including the potential removal of the existing
midblock bulge on 29th Avenue, is required to see if
additional on-street drop-off spaces can be achieved.
(v) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 39
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
3. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-B.C. Hydro kiosks)
are to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
4. Provision of a Traffic Management Strategy to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services, including a letter of
commitment from the school is required for the following items:
(a) Provision of $300,000 towards traffic calming in the
neighborhood to address impacts of the school traffic
within the first five years of occupancy of the final phase of
construction.
(b) Provision of all Class B bicycle spaces to be covered.
(c) Provide notifications to students and staff on a semi-annual
basis (two times per year) of transportation demand
management (TDM) measures being provided by the
school as part of the Green Mobility Plan.
(d) Provide a limited Transportation Management Plan (TMP)
update after each phase of the schools development plan
outlining the following:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 40
(i) Travel mode survey for the entire school students
and staff with a minimum 90% response rate to be
completed annually for three years post-occupancy.
(ii) Current and future TDM measures being
implemented at the school.
(iii) Number of students and staff utilizing the various
TDM measures.
(iv) Outline whether the school is meeting the
previously set travel mode targets and to set new
targets for the future.
(v) Include any neighbourhood concerns regarding the
school traffic.
(vi) Submit a copy of the limited TMP to the School
Liaison at the City of Vancouver for review.
(vii) Designate a TMP administrator at the school that
will be responsible for conducting the mode
surveys, dealing with traffic concerns around the
school and implementing the TDM measures.
(viii) Provide an Internal Traffic Management Plan in
brochure form that is to be distributed to all families.
(ix) Consider additional strategies to reduce vehicle
trips and congestion around the school, such as:
a. Carpool strategies
b. Walking school bus
c. Bicycle train
d. Walking Wednesdays
e. Park and Walk a Block
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
5. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary for securing the low carbon energy
requirements of the development, which may include but are not
limited to, agreements which require the developer to undertake
and share with the City performance monitoring of the thermal
energy system for the development on a reporting schedule,
containing information, and prepared in a form as requested by
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Public Art
6. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 41
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please call Eric Frederickson, Public Art
Program Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
7. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Protection, City Engineer and Director of
Legal Services, including a Section 219 covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registered
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over other such liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 42
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, at the time of enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the General Manager of
Development Services be instructed to bring forward for approval the CD-1
Design Guidelines, generally as presented in Appendix F of the Policy Report
dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4175 West 29th Avenue
(St. George’s Senior School)”.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services to
instructed to bring forward for approval the amendment to the Subdivision
By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4175 West 29th Avenue (St. George’s
Senior School)”.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03170)
6. TEXT AMENDMENT: 2133 Nanton Avenue and 4189 Yew Street (Arbutus Centre)
At the Public Hearing on July 18, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers, and
following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred discussion and decision on the
above-noted matter to the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
Councillor Jang advised he had reviewed the portion of the proceedings he missed and is
therefore eligible to vote.
Councillor De Genova declared conflict of interest on this matter as she previously worked with
the applicant. She left the chamber at 11:44 am and did not return for the duration of the item.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 43
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Arbutus Village Holdings Ltd. (Larco Investments) to
amend CD-1 (642) By-law No. 11658, as amended by By-law No. 11749
(collectively, the “CD-1 By-law”) for 2133 Nanton Avenue [PID: 029-960-843;
Lot 2, District Lot 526, Group 1, New Westminster District Plan EPP59809] and
4189 Yew Street [PID: 029-960-835; Lot 1, District Lot 526, Group 1, New
Westminster District Plan EPP59809] to increase the allowable floor area by
8,016 sq. m (86,283 sq. ft.) to a site-wide maximum of 75,081 sq. m
(808,165 sq. ft.) for all uses combined, a maximum of 65,016 sq. m (699,826 sq.
ft.) for residential uses, a minimum of 10,065 sq. m (108,338 sq. ft.) of non-
dwelling uses, and to increase the maximum building height from 57 m (187 ft.)
to 60 m (197 ft.) geodetic datum for Block C and from 57 m (187 ft.) to 72 m (236
ft.) geodetic datum for Block D, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated June 11, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 2133
Nanton Avenue and 4189 Yew Street (Arbutus Centre)” be approved subject to
the following conditions:
Conditions of Approval of the Form of Development
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Dialog Architects and received
December 22, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow
minor alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development of the Block D building to reduce the shadow
impact on the park through sculpturing the building as follows:
(i) Provide further shoulder setback on the 3rd and 4th floors
of the townhouses along the northwest edge of the site.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to cast no more shadow on
the Arbutus Village Park path than is already cast by the
existing trees.
(ii) Reduce the height of terraces at the north end of Block D
building from 10, 8, and 6 storeys to 8, 6, and 4 storeys
respectively.
Note to Applicant: This measure also assists with the
improvement of the massing transition to the existing

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 44
adjacent 3-storey residential building on the northeast
corner. Stair and the corridor should be contained within
the primary terrace massing.
2. Design development of Block C building to increase solar
penetration onto the Public Square, particularly with the
consideration of the open space and outdoor patio in front of the
restaurant.
3. Design development to improve the Block D streetscape along the
Yew Street extension as follows:
(i) Provide a notable shoulder setback of approximately 10 ft.
above the 8th floor on the east and south sides of Block D
apartment building.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to create a street wall to be
compatible with the scale of street space and the building
form on the other side of the street and reduce the
apparent overall massing viewed from the street.
(ii) Provide a substantial break on the east façade of Block D
building to break up the overall massing to give the
appearance of two separate buildings.
Note to Applicant: The proposed overall building width
along the Yew Street extension is approx. 230 ft. An
appropriate apparent building width generally does not
exceed 100 ft. Encourage including a green wall to
strengthen the break and soften the façade.
4. Design development to minimize the view impact of the rooftop
appurtenances on the uppermost roof of Block C and D buildings,
including elevator penthouse, mechanical structure, stair, and
screening.
Note to Applicant: All rooftop appurtenances should be set back
substantially from the edges of the roofs. Only small mechanical
structures and screens can be considered and centrally placed.
This condition could be achieved by relocating the elevator core to
grid line 8 or 9. The applicant is encouraged to explore other
design solutions.
5. Design development to improve the architectural expression in
order to simplify and calm the expression of the building.
Note to Applicant: The intent of this condition is to further relieve
the apparent massing and height of the buildings and improve the
visual interest to the surrounding public realm. The methods could

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 45
include simplifying the mix of the vertical and horizontal
expression, removing the vertical frames of the projected
balconies on the east façade of building D, and providing a clearly
defined base and pedestrian friendly frontage for the building C on
all sides. The applicant is encouraged to explore other design
solutions.
6. Design development to ensure commercial retail units on Block C
and D are designed to activate and enhance user experience on
the Public Square.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Review
8. Design development to the landscape treatment to maximize
green roof area, tree canopy cover, soil volumes and layered
planting on slab, as follows:
(i) Maximized intensive/extensive green roof area to all roof
spaces and related amenity areas;
(ii) Minimize the necessity for above grade tree planters and
provide soil volumes below grade, to the greatest extent
practicable.
Note to Applicant: Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab
should be designed to maximize soil depths. This will require
integration of the landscape design and the structural and
architectural plan. Soil depths on slab should exceed BCLNA
Landscape Standard. At the perimeter of the building the slab can
be angled downward (1.0 m across and 1.2 m down) to maximize
contiguous soil volumes.
9. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents and other utilities in a manner which minimizes the
impact to the open space design and public realm.
10. Design development to the Integrated Rainwater Management
Strategy to explore opportunities for onsite rain water infiltration,
as follows:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 46
(i) Maximize landscape based on best management
practises;
(ii) Minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water
storage;
(iii) Increase the amount of planting to the rooftop areas,
where possible;
(iv) Consider linear infiltration bio-swales along property lines;
(v) Use permeable paving on slabs and at grade;
(vi) Employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever
possible); and
(vii) Use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage
areas.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the City of Vancouver Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan, Vol.1 & 2 for further information. A
consulting engineer (subject matter expert) will need to be
engaged and early phase soil analysis will be needed. Further
comments may be outstanding at the development permit stage.
11. Provision of plans, plan details and documentation/calculations
that support integrated rainwater management, including
absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and detention systems, as
follows:
(i) Detailed storm water report with calculations describing
how the various best management practices contribute to
the quality and quantity targets;
(ii) A separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic grading
indicating intent to direct rainwater to infiltration zones; and
(iii) An overlay plan that shows amount and ratio of vegetative
cover (green roof), permeable/impermeable hardscaping
and notations describing the storage location of rainwater
falling on each surface, including roofs.
Note to Applicant: Water balance calculations that assume soil
volumes are receiving rainwater will only be valid if water falls
directly on the soil or is directed from hard surfaces to the
respective infiltration zones.
12. Provision of written consent from adjacent owners in respect to
offsite tree removal.
Note to Applicant: This will require further coordination with the
Park Board and Engineering for trees located on city property.
Tree removals on adjacent private property sites will need written
consent from the property owners to accompany the tree removal
application. In the event that consent cannot be provided, design

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 47
development may be needed to ensure safe retention of trees.
Further comments may be required at the Development Permit
stage.
13. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1’. scale minimum.
The Plant list should include the common and botanical name,
size and quantity of all existing/ proposed plant material. Plant
material should be clearly illustrated on the Plan and keyed to the
Plant List. The landscape plan should include the public realm
treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed street trees,
adjoining walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista transformers
and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire hydrants.
14. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum ¼ inch scale) through common open spaces, private
patio areas and the public realm.
Note to Applicant: The sections should illustrate the slab design
and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy and any
associated landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas,
illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside
dimension), soil, root ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and
portions of the adjacent building, such as residential units or
amenity rooms.
15. Provision of a phased Tree Management Plan.
Note to Applicant: To be submitted at the Development Permit
stage at each phase. It is preferred that the arborist Tree
Management Plan (rather than a separate Tree Removal Plan
created by the landscape architect) become the primary document
for tree removal- and protection-related matters. Attach the large
scale tree management sheet (at the same size sheet as the
architectural plans) to the landscape plan submissions for each
phase at the Development Permit stage.
16. Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include
signatures by the owner, contractor and arborist.
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties are
aware of the roles and responsibilities and that the project is on
track to satisfy the steps and recommendations outlined by the
arborist, as needed. For example, advanced planning will be
needed to ensure that certain works, such as site supervision
checkpoints, are coordinated.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 48
17. Submission of construction phase arborist reports, as needed,
submitted to the Chief Building Official and the Landscape Planner
in a timely manner subsequent to pre-scheduled arborist
supervision visits.
18. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas,
including urban agriculture areas and individual hose bibs for all
private patios of 9.29 sq. m (100 sq. ft.) or larger.
Note to Applicant: Provide a separate irrigation plan (one sheet
size only) that illustrates symbols for hose bib and stub out
locations. There should be accompanying written notes on the
same plan and/or landscape plan describing the intent and/or
standards of irrigation.
19. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the Development
Permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building
permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604.871.6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604.257.8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final
spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall
be 8 ft. long and 18 inches in. Planting depth of root ball must be
below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree
planting completion".
20. Provision of enlarged detailed elevations/sections for all vertical
landscape structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis).
21. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Consider Crime Prevention Through
Environmental Design principles and avoid any lighting that can
cause glare to residences.
22. Incorporation of the principles of the City of Vancouver Bird-
Friendly Design Guidelines for the protection, enhancement and
creation of bird habitat and reduction of potential threats to birds.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 49
Note to Applicant: Refer to
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentB.
pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentC.
pdf
Technical Check
23. Provide detailed calculations to ensure compliance with Section
10.11 that mechanical appurtenances (if proposed) do not, in total,
exceed one-third of the width of the building or buildings as
measured on any elevation drawings and do not, in total, cover
more than 10% of the roof area on which they are located as
viewed from directly above. If this condition cannot be met, the
height is measured to top of mechanical appurtenances. Also refer
to Section 7.3.a and 7.3.b per CD-1 (642).
24. Required access to maintain the proposed green roof can be
excluded from height (i.e. stairs, elevator) per Section 10.11.
Demonstrate at the development permit stage that planted area at
the roof is at least 50% for extensive green roofs, or at least 25%
for intensive roofs.
25. Clarify if there are any trellis (or canopy, or arbor, or other similar
covered features), as they are counted as floor area if proposed.
The overall site plan and Landscape Plan indicate a trellis at the
roof top communal dining area of Block D. It should be counted as
floor area or deleted. The current set of plans does not have
enough details or dimensions to estimate the size/area.
26. Label each residential balcony as "open" or "enclosed". Provide
the dimensions and area of each residential balcony. Provide
calculations to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.3.a per
CD-1 (642) that it must not exceed 12% of the residential floor
area being provided. There is discrepancy in the area at levels 4
and 5 on Block D. The floor plan area adds up to 132 sq. m at
level 4 on Block D but the summary table noted 167 sq. m
Similarly, the floor plan area adds up to 130 sq. m at level 5, Block
D but the summary table noted 92 sq. m. There is a portion of two
balconies at level 11 on Block D that is located above the level 10
balconies. The balconies at level 11 add up to approximately
16 sq. m and should be included as balcony area.
27. If enclosed residential balconies are proposed, refer to Section
5.4.a per CD-1 (642) to ensure that no more than 50% of excluded
balcony floor area is enclosed.
Note to Applicant: A reminder to the applicant that there is no floor
area exclusion for non-residential open or enclosed balconies.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 50
28. Compliance with Section 10.15 about living accommodation below
finished grade. Bedrooms in the basement/cellar cannot be
located more than 6 ft. below grade. The lowest level with
bedrooms may need to be raised if they are too deep. The current
plans do not indicate floor plan layouts to determine if there are
bedrooms. Applicant will need to consult with Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability to ensure compliance with this section if
there are bedrooms below finished grade.
29. Show horizontal angle of daylight (HAD) calculations for each
applicable room. Ensure compliance with each applicable room.
Horizontal Angle of Daylight applies to bedrooms in townhouse
units in the lowest level. Units located adjacent to "Residential
Storage" in Block D must also meet Horizontal Angle of Daylight
requirements. Also see the note regarding living accommodation
below finished grade above.
30. Provide a summary table indicating the net area of each dwelling
unit. Net area excludes exclusions such as in-suite residential
storage spaces and residential balconies.
31. Label outdoor private residential amenity spaces such as patio,
covered porch, roof deck. Indicate the dimensions and area of
each outdoor private amenity space.
32. Confirmation of compliance that mechanical spaces above base
surface (if proposed) is counted as floor area. Floor area exclusion
is applicable only if they are located at or below base surface per
Section 5.3.c of CD-1 (642).
33. Refer to the Bulk Storage and In-Suite Storage – Multiple Family
Residential Developments bulletin
(http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/bulletin/b004.pdf). For each dwelling
unit, a minimum of 5.7 cu. m of bulk storage is required.
Note to Applicant: Demonstrate compliance with the requirements
from this bulletin by means of overlays, notations or dimensions.
No FSR exclusion for non-residential storage located above or
below base surface.
34. If “Strata Recreation Centre” is accessible by stairs and elevators
and the two lobby areas, include them in floor area calculations.
Note to Applicant: Clarify how occupants will access this space.
35. Specify "Cafe" as "Retail".
36. Specify "Restaurant" by Class 1 or Class 2. Clarify the location of
kitchen exhaust. Consult with Planning, Urban Design and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 51
Sustainability to review its location.
37. Clarify what is “B.O.H.” at level 1.
38. Confirmation that at least 20% of all off-street parking spaces will
be available for charging of electric vehicles.
39. Number and label each parking space as standard, small, visitor,
or disability. Provide dimensions of each parking space or
alternatively, provide a legend. Specify the associated use (such
as residential, restaurant, retail etc.) of parking spaces. Same is
required for loading spaces.
40. Number and label each bicycle space as horizontal, vertical, or
locker, and Class A or Class B. Ensure compliance with Sections
6.3.13 and 6.3.13A. Provide dimensions of each bicycle space or
alternatively, provide a bicycle space legend. Specify the
associated use (such as residential, restaurant, retail etc.) of each
bicycle space or bicycle room.
41. Construction of the bicycle rooms to be in accordance with
Section 6.3 of the Parking By-law.
42. The design of the bicycle spaces (including bicycle rooms,
compounds, lockers and/or racks) regarding safety and security
measures shall be in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Section 6 of the Parking By-law.
43. Provide one electrical receptacle per 2 bicycle spaces for the
charging of electric bicycles.
44. Provide End of Trip facilities with details as per Vancouver Building
By-law.
45. Delete of all references to the proposed signage, and add a
notation on plans confirming that all signage is shown for
reference only and is not approved under this Development
Permit.
Note to Applicant: Signage is regulated by the Sign By-law and
requires separate approvals. The owner[s] assumes responsibility
to achieve compliance with the Sign By-law and obtain the
required sign permits.
46. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen any
emergency generator, exhaust or intake ventilation, electrical
substation and gas meters in a manner that minimizes their visual
and acoustic impacts on the building’s open space and the Public
Realm.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 52
47. An acoustical consultant's report shall be submitted which
assesses noise impacts on the site and recommends noise
mitigation measures in order to achieve noise criteria.
48. Written confirmation shall be submitted by the applicant that:
(i) The acoustical measures will be incorporated into the final
design and construction, based on the consultant's
recommendations;
(ii) Adequate and effective acoustic separation will be
provided between the commercial and residential portions
of the building; and,
(iii) Mechanical (ventilators, generators, compactors and
exhaust systems) will be designed and located to minimize
the noise impact on the neighbourhood and to comply with
Noise Control By-law No. 6555.
Engineering
49. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
50. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law No.
4243 section 3A and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
51. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction (i.e.
consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent private
property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days
lead time for any major crane erection and removal or slab pour
that requires additional street use beyond the already identified
project street use permissions.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 53
52. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show
containers and toters on plans for recycling and garbage needs
and refer to the Engineering garbage and recycling storage facility
design supplement for recommended dimensions and quantities
of bins. Include manoeuvering diagrams and a confirmation letter
from the waste hauler provider regarding access.
Note to Applicant: Pick-up operations should not rely on bins being
stored on the street or lane for pick up. Bins are to be returned to
storage areas immediately after emptying.
53. Design development of “Public Square” space to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
54. Provision of a public realm plan (landscape and lighting plan for
public areas and streets) that includes, but is not limited to, new
sidewalks (minimum 1.8 m wide), curb, pavement, lamp
standards, street trees, landscaping and street furniture adjacent
to the site.
Note to Applicant: A copy of the public realm plan must be
submitted directly to Engineering for review, comment and
approval prior to the issuance of a development permit.
55. Landscape drawings to reflect the previously approved Civil
Drawings.
56. Provide barrier free access along building frontage of the Building
on Block C between Yew Street and the elevator, including the
main entrance.
Note to Applicant: This will require relocation of the bike racks in
front of the Building on Block C to a suggested location at the
north west corner of the Public Square (refer to drawing L1.02).
57. Relocate the gates to the patios facing Yew Street on Block D so
they do not cross the property line (refer to drawing L1.01).
58. Confirmation on drawings submitted for development permit
application that the parking layout adheres to the City of
Vancouver Parking By-law, Zoning and Development By-law and
Parking and Loading Design Supplement.
59. Design Development to comply with the Parking and Loading
Design Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services. Parking, loading, and bicycle spaces shall
be provided and maintained according to the provisions of the
Vancouver Parking By-law. The following items are required:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 54
(i) Provision of all maneuvering details for loading spaces on
site.
Note to Applicant: Provide turning tracks to confirm non-
standard layout, if required.
(ii) Provision of 3.8 m (12.5 ft.) of vertical clearance for access
and maneuvering to Class B loading spaces.
(iii) Provision of additional loading bay width for the second
and subsequent loading spaces.
(iv) Provision of convenient, internal, stair-free loading access
to/from all site uses and the Class B loading bays.
Note to Applicant: Loading across the Public Square will
not be accepted.
(v) Modification of main parkade ramp design to align with the
manoeuver aisle on the P1 parking level.
(vi) Accommodation of unrestricted two way flow on the main
parkade ramp.
(vii) Provision of improved sightlines at the top of the main
parkade ramp.
(viii) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle storage rooms.
(ix) Provision of Class B bicycle racks that are spaced a
minimum of 36 inches apart and minimum 24 inches from
buildings or walls.
60. The following information is required for drawing submission at the
development permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation
review:
(i) Provide a tech table showing the calculations for the
minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the
number of spaces being provided.
(ii) Individually number and label all types of parking and
loading spaces on the drawings.
(iii) Dimension all column encroachments into parking stalls.
Note to Applicant: Dimension the length, width and the
setback from the end of the stall

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 55
(iv) Provide dimensions for typical parking spaces.
(v) Provide dimensions of additional setbacks for parking
spaces due to walls
(vi) Provide dimension manoeuver aisles and the drive aisles
including at the parkade entrance and all gates.
(vii) Provide section drawings showing elevations and minimum
vertical clearances for parking levels, loading bays, ramps,
and security gates. These clearances must consider
mechanical projections and built obstructions.
(viii) Label areas of minimum vertical clearances on parking
levels.
(ix) Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and drive
aisles at all breakpoints, loading bays, disability spaces,
and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: The slope and length of the ramped
sections at all breakpoints to be shown on the submitted
drawings.
(x) Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: Stair ramps are not generally
acceptable.
(xi) Existing street furniture including bus stops, benches etc.
to be shown on plans.
(xii) The location of all poles and guy wires to be shown on the
site plan.
61. Provision of a revised Transportation Demand Management
Strategy and Green Mobility Strategy that includes the requisite
infrastructure where appropriate to prioritize sustainable
transportation modes including walking, cycling, public transit, and
provisions for low carbon vehicles (e.g., electric vehicles),
completed to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services, and the completion of any agreements
required by this Strategy on terms and conditions acceptable to
the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services.
Note to Applicant: The Strategies must include mode share targets
and measures to achieve them. Ongoing monitoring and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 56
adjustment of the TDM measures will be required at intervals
determined by the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Measures, including the bike co-op, will be secured through legal
agreements. See Administrative Bulletin for more information:
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/BYLAWS/bulletin/R019.pdf
56.
62. A Class B Passenger Loading Space, designed to accommodate
passenger loading for HandyDART vehicles, must be provided at
grade, convenient to the Adult Day Centre for the Adult Day
Centre Use.
63. Engineering supports a relaxation of 1 Class B loading bay with
provision of 2 Class A loading bays, a Shared Loading Agreement
and a Loading Management Plan for a total of 1 Class B
passenger space, 2 Class B and 5 Class A loading bays provided
for Blocks C and D.
64. Provision of End of Trip facilities as per Vancouver Building By-
law.
65. Provision of a corner cut Statutory Right of Way at the north east
corner of Block C of approximately 1.0 m by 1.0 m to improve
pedestrian movement between the crossing and Public Square
and access to the Public Square space from the southern east-
west crossing of Yew Street at Lahb Avenue.
Green Infrastructure
66. Provision of a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details
how the rainwater management system meets the Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan requirements for retention, cleaning
and safe conveyance, prepared by a subject matter expert (i.e.
Engineer), subject to review. The proponent should take into
account the following:
(i) Under the Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large
Developments:
a. The target under the ‘Quantity’ deliverable is to
match the post-development runoff 2yr-24hr
volume and peak to the pre-development 2yr-24hr
volume and peak (pre-development being the
immediate preceding use).
Note to Applicant: The pre-development estimate
shall utilize the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post
development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve
to account for climate change.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 57
b. The target under the ‘Quality’ deliverable is based
on treating 90% of the average runoff
(48mm/24hrs) to remove 85% total suspended
solids. Preference will be given to landscape based
treatment systems integrated within the site’s
overall landscaping plan.
(ii) Under the Green Buildings Policy for Rezoning, in the
instance of a zero lot line design staff will consider:
a. The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
retention volume for runoff reduction instead of
infiltration volume.
Note to Applicant: Retention can be achieved
through rainwater reuse, in green roofs and planter
boxes, or slow release detention such as lined
permeable pavement systems.
b. The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
water quality volume to be treated.
Note to Applicant: Staff do not accept the principle
that distinct site areas that have large infiltration
and/or storage capacity in some way compensate
for those areas of the site that are impervious,
without the first and second 24 mm of runoff being
directed towards these absorbent areas, and this
being clearly demonstrated. The subsequent safe
conveyance of rainfall surpassing 48 mm in 24
hours will also need to be demonstrated.
(iii) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from
impermeable surfaces into planted or other
storage/treatment areas.
(iv) Provide outline area/volume calculations to support the
overall rainwater management strategy. Include the area
measurement for all pervious/impervious areas and
demonstrate that each of the receiving infiltration/treatment
areas can accommodate the proposed runoff volumes
without being inundated.
(v) Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will be
considered as rainwater retention/runoff reduction and
water quality practices;
a. Planters designed as flow-through planters can be
used to meet the treatment volume requirement;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 58
b. Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout
planted areas and the inclusion of shallow ponding
depths within the planted areas as part of the
calculations.
(vi) The building/public realm should be designed to show
leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building
systems including an integrative approach to rainwater
management to minimize potable water use and
encourage the use of alternative water sources in areas
such as toilet flushing and irrigation.
(vii) Consideration should be given to a joyful expression of
capture and movement or rainwater across the site;
(viii) Detention tanks shall be considered only where alternative
approaches to rainwater retention prove unacceptable.
Where detention tanks are to be proposed they should be
considered for storing water for alternative uses on site.
Low Carbon Energy
67. Prior to issuance of development permit, the applicant must
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services, that a minimum of 70% of total annual
heating and domestic hot water energy for buildings within the
development will be delivered as a part of a renewable energy
system.
68. If the development is connecting to a City-recognized Low Carbon
Energy System, prior to issuance of building permit the applicant
must demonstrated compliance with minimum design
requirements outlined in the Performance Monitoring & Reporting
Requirements for Low Carbon Energy Systems (updated February
2014 or later), to enable energy metering and the monitoring of
performance metrics during system operation for the purpose of
optimizing system performance and preparing system
performance reports.
Note to Applicant: A proposed energy system Performance
Monitoring and Reporting Plan shall be submitted at the time of
building permit application for approval by the General Manager of
Engineering Services prior to building permit issuance. The
applicant shall refer to the City of Vancouver Performance
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements for Renewable Energy
Systems for further instructions on performance monitoring and
reporting.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 59
Housing
69. Ensure no less than 50% of the social housing units are suitable
for families with children as per the City’s Guidelines for High
Density Housing for Families with Children.
(i) The transfer to the City at a nominal cost of an air space
parcel containing the 125 social housing units and
associated amenity space together with the appropriate
rights and obligations applicable to the ownership and
operation of this legal parcel including reciprocal
easements and indemnities, repair and maintenance, cost
sharing, insurance and other applicable legal obligations;
(ii) Granting of a perpetual right in favour of the City and users
of this Social Housing air space parcel, in the form of a
statutory right of way, for access to and use of required
parking spaces and to the lading spaces in the
underground parkade of the residential complex on this
site, at no cost to the City; and
(iii) Granting the City an option to purchase, for a nominal
purchase price, the Social Housing air space parcel,
exercisable upon completion of construction thereof. The
applicant will be required to provide the Social Housing to
the City prior to receiving an occupancy permit for the
space on Block A.
70. Design and construct the social housing in line with the City’s
Housing, Design and Technical Guidelines, including the
requirement to deliver a minimum of 5% of units within each social
housing building or parcel as wheelchair accessible.
Note to Applicant: Applicant to work with City staff to agree the
location and unit type for the accessible units.
Sustainability
71. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 60
requirements at each stage of permit. For phased developments,
it is expected that the individual development permits will meet the
requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings in effect
at the time of development permit application. For more detail on
the above requirements and what must be submitted at each
stage, refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Zero Waste Planning
72. Provide a Zero Waste Design and Operations Plan at the time of
development permit, and updated with each successive
development permit application, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services, as described in the Rezoning
Policy for Sustainable Large Developments.
Note to Applicant: The Zero Waste Design and Operations Plan
should have a site/development infrastructure design component
and an ongoing operations/maintenance component. The
document should be structured so as to replicate all of the
numbered headings and sub-headings of the Zero Waste Design
and Operations Plan and meaningfully address each of these
headings.
Sustainable Food Systems
73. Provide a Sustainable Food System Plan to include a minimum of
three food systems assets as described in the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, to the satisfaction of the
Director of Social Policy.
Note to Applicant: The following food assets can count towards the
required three food assets that must be delivered as part of the
development: (1) edible landscaping, (2) community gardens, and
(3) on-site organics management. The following comments outline
ways to strengthen the submission:
(i) Edible landscaping – Provide more details on the location
and design of the edible landscaping.
(ii) Shared garden plots – Provide more details on the location
and design of shared garden plots.
(iii) On-site organics management – Provide details of location,
type of machine, and management structure of on-site
organics management.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 61
Parks
74. Design development to reduce shadow impact on Arbutus Village
Park between 10am and noon on the equinox.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the amendment of the CD-1 By-law, the
registered owner shall on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director
of Legal Services and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering Services and the
Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Provision of a Shared Use Loading Agreement and a Shared
Loading Management Plan to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services for the Class A and B loading spaces between the
Residential and the Non-Residential uses in Block C and D.
Note to Applicant: The Shared Loading Management Plan to
include details such as: identification of loading spaces as “shared
use”, allocated time periods for shared use, management of the
facility, identification of loading bays that can be used for
unscheduled loading deliveries and signage/wayfinding proposed
for the loading bays.
2. Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure the
provision, operation and maintenance of 5 Shared Vehicles and
the provision and maintenance of 5 Shared Vehicle Parking
Spaces for use exclusively by such Shared Vehicles, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services, including the
following:
(i) Provision of 5 Shared Vehicles to the development for a
minimum period of 3 years;
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicles;
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Spaces
for use exclusively by such Shared Vehicles;
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 62
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Spaces;
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle and register the Shared
Vehicle Agreement against the title to the development,
with such priority as the Director of Legal Services may
require and including a covenant under section 219 of the
Land Title Act of British Columbia, a statutory right of way,
or other instrument satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services, securing these conditions; and
(vi) Provide a letter of intent from a Shared Vehicle
Organization indicating their willingness to supply the
Shared Vehicles on the site at building occupancy. The
letter is to also indicate acceptance of the general location,
configuration and accessibility of the Shared Vehicle
Spaces.
Note to Applicant: Shared Vehicle Spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9 m.
3. Enter into an amendment of the Services Agreement registered at
the Land Title Office under no. CA5499427 – CA5499432 to detail
the
on-site and off-site works and services necessary or incidental to
the servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such
that they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for the
services are provided. No development permit for Blocks C or D
will be issued until the security for the services is provided. The
agreement shall include, but not be limited to, the following
provisions to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services:
(i) No development permit will be issued for Block C or Block
D until the design of the Services required for that
particular phase of development are completed;
(ii) No occupancy of any buildings or improvements on Block
C or Block D until the Services required for that particular
phase of development are completed; and shall include the
following works to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services:
a. The design and installation of all Storm, Sanitary
and Water systems as required by the
development;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 63
b. Design and construction of path connections within
the Arbutus Village Park that will connect the park’s
existing paths with the proposed onsite paths;
c. Provision (including all required testing, analysis
and installation) of traffic calming measures on the
Nanton Avenue bike route, to be completed after
the Yew Street Extension is open to traffic;
d. Design and construction of all other roads,
pathways, sidewalks, lanes, mews, boulevards,
greenways, bikeways and all other public access
areas and shall require, to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services:
1. Provision of life-cycle assessments for all
non-standard materials proposed for City
streets.
2. Provision of soil resistivity testing in all
roads to determine the need for cathodic
protection of utilities.
(iii) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(iv) The 5-year post-development flow rate discharged to the
sewer shall be no greater than the 5-year pre-development
flow rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize the
2014 IDF curve, whereas the post-development estimate
shall utilize the 2100 IDF curve to account for climate
change.
(v) Development to be serviced to the proposed 300 mm
sanitary sewer in Yew Street and the proposed 525 mm
storm sewer in Yew Street. These sewers are currently
being constructed as part of the Owner’s Works in the
Services Agreement for the currently CD-1 (642).

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 64
Note to Applicant: Watercourse covenant may be required
based on the presence of an old stream(s).
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required to
ensure on-going operations of certain storm water storage,
rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
(vi) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(vii) Provision of a 2.13 m (7 ft.) light broom finish saw cut
concrete surface for all public walkways and sidewalks.
Note to Applicant: This consistent surface treatment is to
ensure that both sidewalks and walkways can clearly be
identified as pedestrian space for public use.
(viii) Provision of new street lighting adjacent to the site and
pedestrian scale lighting along all public walkways to
current standards including a lighting design.
4. Provision of up to $450,000, at the discretion of the General
Manager of Engineering Services, for traffic calming to mitigate
the impacts of the development’s traffic on the neighbourhood.
Measures are to be determined within five years of occupancy of
the last building pursuant to this rezoning and are subject to
neighbourhood consultation where appropriate.
Note to Applicant: A letter of credit or cash deposit in the value of
$450,000 is required to be delivered prior to by-law enactment.
Any balance of unused funds may be returned after five years of
occupancy of the last building.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 65
Note to Applicant: There will be no reliance on secondary voltage
from the existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-
way. Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
6. Make arranges to the satisfaction of the General Manger of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services to amend
the Statutory Right of Way Agreements registered prior to the
2016 Rezoning under no. CA5499331 – CA540048 to include the
following terms and conditions:
(i) The “Public Square” space to be a minimum of 1,240 sq. m
(13,347 sq. ft.);
(ii) The Arbutus Village Park connectors, including the paths
along the western boundary of the site through Blocks C
and D and the stairs, for 24 hour pedestrian access and
public use. The SRW is to be a blanket charge (defined by
sketch plan) and to be modified to volumetric plan based
on the as-built conditions. The modification is to be
registered prior to occupancy of Block C or Block D.
Maintenance of the Public Square and Arbutus Village
Park shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
commercial properties.
Low Carbon Energy
7. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
8. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary for securing the low carbon energy
requirements of the development, which may include but are not
limited to agreements which:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 66
(i) Require the developer to undertake performance
monitoring of the thermal energy system for the
development on a reporting schedule, containing
information, and prepared in a form as requested by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
Public Art
9. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please call Eric Fredericksen, Public Art
Program Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Neighbourhood House and Adult Day Centre Facility
10. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services in consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services and the Director of Facilities Planning
and Development to amend the Neighbourhood House and Adult
Day Centre facility registered at the Land Title Office under nos.
CA5499449 to CA5499456 to secure the provision of a public
amenity in the form of a Neighbourhood House and Adult Day
Centre facility, with a total area of not less than 1,889 sq. m
(20,333 sq. ft.), which is 386 sq. m (4,155 sq. ft. larger than
secured in the 2016 Rezoning) as part of the development at 2133
Nanton Avenue; including:
(i) The design, construction, equipping and finishing of the
proposed Neighbourhood House and Adult Day Centre
facility;
Note to Applicant: Design development will be required
through the Development Permit process to demonstrate
that the functional requirements of the Neighbourhood
House and Adult Day Centre facility can be met.
(ii) The transfer to the City at a nominal cost of an air space
parcel containing the Neighbourhood House and Adult Day
Centre facility, together with the appropriate rights and
obligations applicable to the ownership and operation of
this legal parcel including reciprocal easements and
indemnities, repair and maintenance, cost sharing,
insurance and other applicable legal obligations;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 67
(iii) Granting of a perpetual right in favour of the City and the
users of this Neighbourhood House and Adult Day Centre
facility, in the form of a statutory right of way, for access to
and use of three parking spaces and to the loading spaces
in the underground parkade of the residential complex on
this site, at no cost to the City; and
(iv) Granting the City an option to purchase, for a nominal
purchase price, the Neighbourhood House and Adult Day
Centre Facility air space parcel, exercisable upon
completion of construction thereof. The applicant will be
required to provide the Neighbourhood House and Adult
Day Centre Facility to the City prior to receiving an
occupancy permit for the space on Blocks C and D.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
11. Pay to the City, prior to enactment of the amendment to the CD-1
By-law, the cash portion of the Community Amenity Contribution
of $2,000,000 which the applicant has offered to the City and
which will be allocated to construction of the Arbutus Greenway.
Payment is to be made prior to enactment of the amendment to
the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services.
Social Housing
12. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services in consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services and the Director of Facilities Planning
and Development, to amend the Social Housing Construction and
Transfer Agreement registered at the Land Title Office under nos.
CA5499411 to CA5499416 to secure the applicant’s obligation to
design, build and deliver to the City social housing units which
comprise no less than 20% of the total floor area for all uses that
are included in the calculation of floor space ratio, and associated
parking and bike storage for such social housing, all contained
within a separate air space parcel.
Note to Applicant: Social housing units are to be delivered in-kind
and turnkey, comprising at least 25 additional social housing units
(compared to the 2016 Rezoning), in no less than 1,806 sq. m
(19,440 sq. ft.) of additional buildable area compared to the 2016
Rezoning, meeting the City’s Housing Specifications, and
including required parking, amenity and storage spaces, all within
a single fee-simple air space parcel, with systems maintained by
the Block A rental building or commercial air space parcel (as
applicable) with fair and equitable sharing of costs related
thereto), transferred to City ownership (free and clear of any

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 68
financial charges, liens, and other encumbrances), no later than
Q2 2020.
Note to Applicant: All 125 social housing units must be delivered in
a single, contiguous air space parcel. Air space parcel is to be no
less than 9,999 sq. m (107,628 sq. ft.).
The agreement or agreements will include, but not be limited to,
the following terms and conditions:
(i) Total floor area must be at least 20% of the residential floor
area included in the calculation of floor space ratio;
(ii) All associated storage lockers, vehicle and bicycle parking
and amenity to be provided is not included in the above net
floor area;
(iii) Unit sizes, parking numbers and finish specifications must
be as per the City’s Housing Design and Technical
Guidelines;
(iv) Unit design and associated storage and amenity space
must be as per the City’s High Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines; and
(v) The air space parcel for the social housing must be
designed to be as autonomous as possible, with design
considerations maximizing the efficiency and minimizing
the cost of operations over the life of the project and within
the larger development.
Note to Applicant: All units must be designed and delivered
in compliance with the City’s Housing Design and
Technical Guidelines.
(vi) Grant the City an option to purchase, for a nominal
purchase price, the social housing air space parcel,
exercisable upon completion of construction of the social
housing.
(vii) As a condition of issuance for the Building Permit, a Letter
of Credit will be required in an amount equal to the
estimated cost. The estimated cost is typically the cost to
complete and deliver the Social Housing Parcel to the City.
This includes the costs to finish and equip, provide all
furnishings and equipment; complete all landscaping, if
any; and cover all soft costs such as consultant design
fees and permit fees for the Social Housing Parcel.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 69
Note to Applicant: The value of the Letter of Credit will be
determined at the time of registration of the legal
agreements related to the provision of Social Housing.
13. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services to enter into a Housing Agreement
applicable to the social housing air space parcel for 60 years or
the life of the building, whichever is greater, which will contain the
following terms and conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less
than one month at a time; and
(iv) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of
“social housing” in the applicable DCL By-law.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-
law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver
Charter.
Secured Rental Housing
14. Submit a complete application and payment for Development
Permit Amendment for Block A.
15. Enter into one or more agreements, including a Housing
Agreement and Section 219 Covenant, as required by the Director
of Legal Services in consultation with the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services, to secure 91 dwelling units
at a square footage of not less than 9,202 sq. m (99,050 sq. ft.)
gross floor space as secured market rental housing, plus related
parking and other indoor and outdoor amenity space consistent
with relevant Council-adopted guidelines. An additional 975 sq. m
(10,500 sq. ft.) will be secured at moderate income rates as set
out in the Moderate Income Rental Housing Pilot Program.
Note to Applicant: Target the Unit Mix Guidelines in the Moderate
Income Rental Housing Pilot Program while designing this space,
with the goal of delivering the maximum number of units across a
range of unit sizes. Final unit mix will be subject to approval of the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
The agreement or agreements will include but not be limited to the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 70
following terms and conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less
than one month at a time;
(iv) All rental units will be secured as rental for a term of 60
years or the life of the building, whichever is greater; and
(v) The average starting monthly rents of the units secured at
moderate income rates will be at or below the following
rates, applicable at the time of initial occupancy:
 Studio $950*
 1 Bedroom $1,200
 2 Bedroom $1,600
 3 Bedroom $2,000
as set out in s. 2a of the “Moderate Income Rental Housing
Pilot Program: Application Process, Project Requirements
And Available Incentives: Admin Bulletin” and rent
increases will be capped at the Residential Tenancy Act
maximum annual allowable increase, as published by the
Province of British Columbia, regardless of a change in
occupancy.
Note to Applicant: A rent roll indicating the agreed
maximum average initial monthly rents for the units
secured at moderate income rates will be required prior to
Development Permit issuance, and again prior to issuance
of an Occupancy Permit, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services (or
successor in function) and the Director of Legal Services.
(vi) The applicant will verify eligibility of new tenants for the
units secured at moderate income rates:
a. For new tenants, annual household income cannot
exceed 4 times the annual rent for the unit (i.e. at least
25% of household income is spent on rent).
b. There should be at least one occupant per bedroom in
the unit.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 71
(vii) The applicant will verify the ongoing eligibility of existing
tenants in the units secured at moderate income rates
every 5 years after initial occupancy:
a. For such tenants, annual household income cannot
exceed 5 times the annual rent for the unit (i.e. at least
20% of income is spent on rent).
b. There should be at least one occupant per bedroom in
the unit.
(viii) On an annual basis, or at the request of the City, the
applicant will report to the City of Vancouver on the
operation of the Moderate Income Rental Housing Units
which will ensure that the City can confirm that the units
are being operated as agreed, and will include a rent roll
for the moderate income units, and a summary of the
results of eligibility testing for all units.
(ix) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successor in
function) and the Director of Legal Services may require in
their sole discretion.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Section 219 Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be
entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter prior to enactment
of the rezoning by-law.
Soils
16. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 72
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the preceding
agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the property
owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject sites as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
All agreements, where appropriate, should be structured to contemplate and
allow for a phased occupancy of buildings and units.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B, of the Policy Report dated June 11, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 2133 Nanton Avenue and 4189 Yew Street
(Arbutus Centre)” the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to the enactment of
the zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at
the discretion of the Director of Legal Services, the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights
for the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of
the City and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the
risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public
hearing shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the
property, and any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed
as a condition of rezoning are at the sole risk of the property
owner; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 73
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer,
shall not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their
authority or discretion regardless of when they are called upon to
exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03171)
(Councillors Affleck and Carr opposed)
(Councillor De Genova ineligible to vote due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12:02 pm and reconvened at 2:13 pm.
* * * * *
COMMUNICATIONS
1. 2018 Council Meeting Schedule Revision
THAT Public Hearings be held on the following dates and times:
Date Time
Friday, September 14, 2018 4 pm
Monday, September 17, 2018 4 pm
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03196)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. Debenture Program 2018 (Inaugural Green Bonds)
June 26, 2018
A. THAT Council authorize the issuance of up to $85,000,000 of City of Vancouver
debentures, utilizing borrowing authorities approved as part of the 2015, 2016,
2017 and 2018 Capital Budgets as follows:
Water $ 2,466,038
Sewers $ 30,083,962
Neighbourhood Energy Utility $ 6,023,000
Public Safety Facilities $ 14,300,000
Streets and Bridge Infrastructure $ 3,477,000
Street Lighting, Traffic Signals and Communication Systems $ 2,000,000
Community Facilities $ 26,650,000
$ 85,000,000

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 74
B. THAT, until the borrowing authorities established pursuant to A above are
exercised, the Director of Finance, in consultation with the Mayor, the Chair of
the City Finance and Services Committee, and the City Manager, or a majority of
them, be empowered to act and instruct the City’s Fiscal Agent to proceed with
the issuance of the debentures, and to set the interest rate, price, and other
terms and conditions on which the debentures will be issued by the City.
It should be noted that once the Director of Finance instructs the Fiscal Agent to
offer the debentures in the public market, Council will be required to enact the
appropriate borrowing by-law to authorize issuance of the debentures.
C. THAT, pursuant to A above, Council authorize the issuance of City of Vancouver
inaugural Green Bonds as part of its regular debenture funding program, as it
amplifies the City's commitment to environmental sustainability by financing
City's eligible capital projects in various "green" initiatives.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03197)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. Jericho Lands Policy Planning Program
July 10, 2018
A. THAT Council endorse a planning program to develop a Policy Statement to
guide redevelopment of the Jericho Lands.
B. THAT the staff resources and the estimated cost-recovery budget of $2,860,000
outlined in Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled
“Jericho Lands Policy Planning Program”, be approved to complete the Policy
Statement; and
FURTHER THAT, consistent with the City’s cost-recovery practice, Council
accept a financial contribution of $2,860,000, paid in instalments, from the project
proponents, the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh Development
Corporation and the Canada Lands Company, to fully recover the program costs.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03198)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
3. 2018 Q2 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
July 10, 2018
A. THAT Council approve an increase of $13.8 million to the 2015-2018 Capital
Plan as outlined in the Administrative Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “2018
Q2 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts”, and Appendix 1 of the same
report.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 75
B. THAT Council approve budget and funding adjustments totaling a net increase of
$24.3 million to Multi-Year Capital Project Budgets as outlined in the
Administrative Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “2018 Q2 Capital Budget
Adjustments and Closeouts” and in Appendix 1 of the above-noted report, with
no change to the overall 2018 Capital Expenditure Budget.
C. THAT Council approve an increase of $600,000 to a capital grant to Gordon
Neighbourhood House as outlined in Appendix 1 of the Administrative Report
dated July 10, 2018, entitled “2018 Q2 Capital Budget Adjustments and
Closeouts”; source of funds to be Community Amenity Contribution included in B
above with details noted in Appendix 1 of the above-noted report.
D. THAT, as part of the quarterly Capital Budget closeout process, Council approve
the closeout of four (4) completed capital projects with a surplus or deficit
exceeding $200,000 as outlined in the Administrative Report dated July 10, 2018,
entitled “2018 Q2 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts”, and in Appendix 2
of the above-noted report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03199) AND C
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
4. Capital Contribution for 33 West Cordova Street (36 Blood Alley Square) for
Social/Supportive Housing
May 10, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services to enter into an agreement (the “Contribution Agreement”) with British
Columbia Housing Management Commission (“BC Housing”), to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the
Director of Legal Services, setting out the conditions of the capital contribution
toward construction of 80 social/supportive housing units at 36 Blood Alley
Square and 23-51 West Cordova (PID: 030-395-534; Lot A, Block 2, Old
Granville Townsite, New Westminster District, Plan EPP80295). The Contribution
Agreement will state that the City will provide a capital contribution of $1,600,000
to BC Housing for the social/supportive housing units subject to the following:
i. execution of the Contribution Agreement with terms and conditions as
outlined in the Administrative Report dated May 10, 2018, entitled “Capital
Contribution for 33 West Cordova Street (36 Blood Alley Square) for
Social/Supportive Housing”;
ii. registration of the Housing Agreement;
iii. all funding/financing sources secured; and
iv. building permit issuance.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 76
B. THAT Council approve a capital contribution of $1,600,000 ($20,000 per unit) to
BC Housing to support the construction of 80 units of social/supportive housing
at 33 West Cordova Street. The source of funding for the capital contribution is
the Capital Budget for Non-market Rental Housing (Social/supportive Housing).
Payment of the capital contribution is anticipated in October 2018 (following
issuance of building permit).
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03200)
5. 2019 Fee Increases for Rezoning, Development, Building, and Other Related
Permits
June 18, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
A. THAT Council adjust fees to improve recovery of City costs concerning
development, construction and other related matters, generally in accordance
with Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated June 18, 2018, entitled “2019
Fee Increases for Rezoning, Development, Building, and Other Related Permits”.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the necessary
amendments to the Gas Fitting By-law No. 3057, the Subdivision By-law
No. 5208, the Electrical By-law No. 5563, the Zoning and Development Fee
By-law No. 5585, the Miscellaneous Fees By-law No. 5564, the Secondary Suite
Inspection Fee By-law No. 6553, the Noise Control By-law No. 6555, the
Protection of Trees By-law No. 9958, the Building By-law No. 10908, and the
Sign By-law No. 11879, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated June 18, 2018, entitled “2019 Fee Increases for
Rezoning, Development, Building, and Other Related Permits”, to be effective
January 1, 2019.
C. THAT the General Manager of Development, Buildings and Licensing; General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability; and General Manager of
Engineering Services, be directed to advise the development and building
community of the Rezoning, Development and Building Permit fee changes.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03174)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and De Genova opposed)
6. Year 2019 License and Service Fee Increases – Mountain View Cemetery
June 27, 2018
A. THAT Council approve inflationary increases, as well as market and cost
recovery adjustments, to Cemetery fees, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated June 27, 2018, entitled “Year
2019 License and Service Fee Increases – Mountain View Cemetery”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 77
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the necessary
amendments to Mountain View Cemetery By-law No. 8719, generally in
accordance with the fee schedule attached to the Administrative Report dated
June 27, 2018, entitled “Year 2019 License and Service Fee Increases –
Mountain View Cemetery”, to be effective January 1, 2019.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03203)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
7. Sustaining Affordable Non-Profit Housing on City Land
July 17, 2018
This item was referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at 9:30 am, to hear from speakers.
8. 2221-2235 Main Street Lease and Operator Selection
July 16, 2018
A. THAT Council approve Catalyst Community Developments Society (“Catalyst”)
as the selected non-profit partner to finance, build, operate and maintain the
social housing project on the City-owned site located at:
2221-2235 Main Street [Lot 6; Lot 7, except the south 6.44 feet; Amended
Lot 8 (See 124528L); Lot 9; Lot 10; and Lot 11, all of Block 37, District Lot
200A, Plan 197; PIDs: 013-420- 283; 013-420-305; 005-173-019; 005-
173-027; 005-173-043 and 005-173-051, respectively (the “Property”).
B. THAT Council authorize the Director/Chief Executive Officer of Vancouver
Affordable Housing Agency to negotiate and execute a ground lease (the
“Lease”) for the Property with Catalyst to enable the development of a
non-market housing project which ground lease will provide for:
i. a term of 60 years;
ii. a nominal prepaid rent;
iii. a minimum of 30% of units must be rented below market, as follows:
a. rents may not exceed 30% of the Housing Income Limits (HILs);
b. occupants’ household income may not exceed HILs by more than
20 percent; and,
c. average rent payments may not exceed 30% of occupant income,
measured each three years across all 44 affordable units;
iv. the remaining 70% of units must be rented at no more than 10% below
DCL rents;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 78
v. the average rent across all units combined must be no greater than 80%
of the rents for for-profit affordable rental housing in the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-Law;
vi. reporting requirements, including an annual rent roll and a periodic
building condition report;
vii. a requirement to create, implement and comply with a capital asset plan;
viii. a requirement to maintain a capital replacement reserve at a level of
funding determined by an independent third party consultant with relevant
expertise and approved by the City;
ix. a requirement that operating surplus generated from the project:
a. first, be used to create and maintain a reserve for the purpose of
subsidizing the rent of HILs units as required to meet affordability
requirements of the lease; and
b. second, be divided equally with the City with Catalyst’s portion to
be used to increase the affordability of HILs units in the building or
increase the number of HILs units, or create or acquire net new,
social housing within Vancouver; and,
x. which will otherwise be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, the Director of
Finance and the Director of Legal Services.
C. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate to enter into a sublease
between Catalyst as landlord and the City as tenant of the replacement parking
facility component of the project as further described herein and to be
constructed by Catalyst on the Property, which sublease will provide for:
(i) a term which is the term of the ground lease less a day;
(ii) a nominal prepaid rent; and
(iii) such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the General
Manager of Engineering, General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management and Director of Legal Services.
D. THAT Council’s decision to commence negotiations and execute the Lease will
not, in any way, limit Council or the City and its officials (including the Approving
Officer) in exercising their regulatory discretion in respect of any rezoning,
subdivision or consolidation or permitting of or for the Property.
E. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A through C above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 03204)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 79
9. 8501 Boundary Lease and Operator Selection
July 12, 2018
A. THAT Council approve Catalyst Community Developments Society (“Catalyst”)
as the selected non-profit partner to finance, build, operate and maintain the
social housing project on the City-owned site located at 8501 Boundary, and
legally described as: PID 029-292-221, Lot 34, District Lot 331, Group 1, New
Westminster District, Plan EPP 31354 (the “Property”).
B. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute a ground lease (the “Lease”) for the Properties with Catalyst to enable
the development of a non-market housing project which ground lease will provide
for
i. a term of 60 years;
ii. a nominal prepaid rent;
iii. a minimum of 30% of units must be rented below market, as follows:
a. rents may not exceed 30% of the Housing Income Limits (HILs);
b. occupants’ household income may not exceed HILs by more than
20 percent; and,
c. average rent payments may not exceed 30% of occupant income,
measured each three years across all 44 affordable units;
iv. the remaining 70% of units must be rented at no more than 10% below
DCL rents;
v. the average rent across all units combined must be no greater than 80%
of the rents for for-profit affordable rental housing in the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-Law;
vi. reporting requirements, including an annual rent roll and a periodic
building condition report;
vii. a requirement to create, implement and comply with a capital asset plan;
viii. a requirement to maintain a capital replacement reserve at a level of
funding determined by an independent third party consultant with relevant
expertise and approved by the City;
ix. a requirement that operating surplus generated from the project:
a. first, be used to create and maintain a reserve for the purpose of
subsidizing the rent of HILs units as required to meet affordability
requirements of the lease; and
b. second, be divided equally with the City with Catalyst’s portion to
be used to increase the affordability of HILs units in the building or
increase the number of HILs units, or create or acquire net new,
social housing within Vancouver; and
x. which will otherwise be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 80
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, the Director of
Finance and the Director of Legal Services.
C. THAT Council’s decision to commence negotiations and execute the Lease will
not, in any way, limit Council or the City and its officials (including the Approving
Officer) in exercising their regulatory discretion in respect of any rezoning,
subdivision or consolidation or permitting of or for the Property.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A and B above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03205)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
10. Capital Contribution for 235 and 237 Main Street (Jubilee Rooms) for
Social/Supportive Housing
July 10, 2018
THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services
to enter into an agreement (the “Contribution Agreement”) with British Columbia Housing
Management Commission (“BC Housing”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services, and subject to reaching this agreement, approve a $200,000 capital
contribution towards securing these Single Room Accommodation (SRA) rooms as
social/supportive housing and renovations to improve liveability of the Jubilee Rooms at
235 and 237 Main Street (Lots 7 and 8, both of Block 6, District Lot 196, Plan 184; PIDs:
015-697-266 and 006-934-161, respectively); source of funding to be the 2018 Capital
Budget for SRO Renewal.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03206)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
11. 2019-2023 Budget Outlook
July 10, 2018
THAT Council receive for information the 2019-2023 Budget Outlook, attached as
Appendix 1 to the Administrative Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “2019-2023 Budget
Outlook”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03201)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 81
POLICY REPORTS
1. License By-law Amendments
July 16, 2018
A. THAT Council approve amendments to License By-law No. 4450 to include the
authority to issue orders generally as described in the body of the Policy Report
dated July 16, 2018, entitled “License By-law Amendments”, and to align licence
conditions with Provincial regulations on cannabis retail, as shown in Appendix A
of the above-noted report.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward the
necessary by-laws to amend License By-law No. 4450, for Council’s
consideration, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated July 16, 2018, entitled “License By-law Amendments”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03207)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. Addition of Water Enforcement Provisions in the Ticket Offences By-law
July 11, 2018
THAT Council approve, in principle, adding enforcement provisions in the Ticket
Offences By-law for the Stage 1 and 2 water restrictions found in the Drinking Water
Conservation By-law.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment
amendments to the Ticket Offences By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated July 11, 2018, entitled “Addition of Water Enforcement
Provisions in the Ticket Offences By-law”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03208)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
3. Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones
(Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones (Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase
Housing Choice
July 6, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
THAT the Policy Report dated July 6, 208, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 82
(Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase Housing Choice”, be referred back to staff for a
more robust consultation.
LOST (Vote No. 03176)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and
Mayor Robertson opposed)
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law,
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018,
entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8
Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones (Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to
Increase Housing Choice”, to:
(i) rezone the RT-7 and RT-8 Districts to RT-5 to increase housing choice
and to provide consistency in the administration of RT zones in similar
historical neighbourhoods, and repeal the existing RT-7 and RT-8 District
Schedules; and
(ii) rezone the RT-10 and RT-10N Districts to RT-11 and RT-11N to increase
housing choice and to provide consistency in the administration of these
similar “small house/duplex” RT zones, and repeal the existing RT-10 and
RT10N District Schedules.
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted
report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT an application to amend the Sign By-law to remove reference to the RT-7,
RT-8 and RT-10 Districts, generally as set out in Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones
(Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase Housing Choice”, be referred to the
same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the above-noted
report, for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Parking
By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 83
July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for
RT-7 and RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones
(Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase Housing Choice”.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Subdivision
By-Law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for
RT-7 and RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones
(Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase Housing Choice”.
E. THAT subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above, the
Kitsilano RT-7 and RT-8 Guidelines be repealed and the RT-5 Guidelines be
amended to incorporate aspects of the RT-7 and RT-8 Design Guidelines,
generally as set out in with Appendix D of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018,
entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8
Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N Zones (Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to
Increase Housing Choice”, for Council adoption;
FURTHER THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward the amendment at the time of
enactment of such amending by-law for Council adoption.
F. THAT subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
Council repeal the RT-10 and RT-10N Small House/Duplex Guidelines.
G. THAT subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to
bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-law, amendments to
the Norquay Village Character House and Retention Guidelines, generally as set
out in Appendix E of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments
to the Zoning and Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and
RT-10 and RT-10N Zones (Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase Housing
Choice”, for Council adoption.
H. THAT if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
described in A above is referred to Public Hearing, then C through G above also
be referred to the same Public Hearing.
I. THAT A through H above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 84
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03177)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
4. Amendments to the Arbutus Corridor Official Development Plan and Regional
Context Statement Official Development Plan
July 10, 2018
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make application to:
(i) amend the Arbutus Corridor Official Development Plan to remove lands
which are not required for transportation or greenway purposes, generally
in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018,
entitled “Amendments to the Arbutus Corridor Official Development Plan
and Regional Context Statement Official Development Plan”; and
(ii) bring forward a by-law to amend the Regional Context Statement Official
Development Plan By-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
above-noted report.
FURTHER THAT the application, together with draft by-law amendments, be referred to
a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing, generally as set out in
Appendices A and B of the above-noted report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03210)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
5. Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law Regarding the RM-8A/8AN
Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor and Grandview-Woodland
July 6, 2018
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018,
entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law Regarding the RM
8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor and Grandview-
Woodland”, to:
(i) Create new zoning districts, RM-8A and RM-8AN, as part of the RM-8
and RM-8N Districts Schedule;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 85
(ii) Revise Schedule F;
(iii) Rezone those areas shown outlined in bold on Schedule A of Appendix A
of the above-noted report from RS-1, RS-7, RT-4, RT-5, and RT-5N to
RM-8A and RM-8AN; and
(iv) Amend Section 3 to revise and detail the requirements for ensuring
adequate drainage of development sites and to better manage
stormwater and groundwater issues;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
described in A above is referred to Public Hearing, then an application to amend
the Sign By-law to establish regulations for the new RM-8A and RM-8AN
districts, generally as set out in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
Regarding the RM 8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor
and Grandview-Woodland”, be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Parking
By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
Regarding the RM 8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor
and Grandview-Woodland”.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Subdivision
By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
Regarding the RM 8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie Corridor
and Grandview-Woodland”.
E. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, RM-8A and
RM-8AN Guidelines, generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law Regarding the RM 8A/8AN Districts for Townhouse Areas in Cambie
Corridor and Grandview-Woodland”, for Council adoption.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 86
F. THAT if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
described in A above is referred to Public Hearing, C through E above also be
referred to the same Public Hearing.
G. THAT A through F be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03211)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
6. Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow
Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice
June 27, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law,
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 27, 2018,
entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for Most RS Zones
to Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice”, to
amend:
(i) the RS-1, RS-1A, RS-1B, RS-5 and RS-6 District Schedules to provide
more housing choice by introducing Two-Family Dwelling, Two-Family
Dwelling with Secondary Suite, and Principal Dwelling Unit with Lock-off
Unit in a Two-Family Dwelling as permitted dwelling uses;
(ii) the RS-2 and RS-7 District Schedules to provide more flexibility in the
regulations for Two-Family Dwelling use and to introduce Two-Family
Dwelling with Secondary Suite, and Principal Dwelling Unit with Lock-off
Unit in a Two-Family Dwelling as permitted dwelling uses;
(iii) Section 10.21 to introduce a maximum dwelling unit size for lock-off units
to more clearly differentiate these small units from secondary suites; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 87
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a public hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted
report, for consideration at the public hearing.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to
bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, related
amendments to the Principal Dwelling Unit Combined with a Lock-off Unit
Guidelines, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
June 27, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for
Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing
Choice”, for Council adoption.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above, the
Strata Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones be repealed and replaced with the
policies generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 27, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law for
Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) to Increase Housing
Choice”;
FURTHER THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward the amendment at the time of
enactment of the amending by laws for Council adoption.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to
bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, related
amendments to the RS-7 Guidelines, generally in accordance with Appendix D of
the Policy Report dated June 27, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law for Most RS Zones to Allow Two-Family Dwellings
(Duplexes) to Increase Housing Choice”, for Council adoption.
E. THAT if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
described in A above is referred to Public Hearing, then B through D above also
be referred to the same Public Hearing.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 88
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03178)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
7. CD-1 Rezoning: 1444 Alberni Street and 740 Nicola Street
July 16, 2018
A. THAT the application, by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership in partnership with
Robert A.M. Stern Architects, on behalf of Alberni Street Nominee Ltd., the
registered property owner, to rezone 1444 Alberni Street and 711 Broughton
Street [PID 007-561-938; LOT I (EXPLANATORY PLAN 10081) BLOCK 43
DISTRICT LOT 185 PLAN 92] and 740 Nicola Street [PID 009-175-105; LOT 16
BLOCK 43 DISTRICT LOT 185 PLAN 92], from DD (Downtown District) to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to increase the permitted floor space ratio
(FSR) from 6.00 to 14.48 and the building height from 91.4 m to 135.2 m to
permit the development of two residential towers containing 314 market strata
units, 129 market rental units and a 56-space childcare centre, be referred to a
Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership in partnership with
Robert A.M. Stern Architects, received September 1, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1444 Alberni
Street and 740 Nicola Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated July 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1444 Alberni Street and 740
Nicola Street”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law, pursuant to Section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter, for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning by-law,
subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the
Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 89
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03213)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
8. CD-1 Text Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)
July 10, 2018
A. THAT the application by Acton Ostry Architects, on behalf of the Jewish
Community Centre of Greater Vancouver, to amend CD-1 (285) By-law No. 6963
for 950 West 41st Avenue [PID: 009-326-472; LOT 27, EXCEPT PART IN PLAN
13567 OF LOT A BLOCK 1008 DISTRICT LOT 526 PLAN 10622], to increase
the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.75 to 4.49 and the building height
from 15.5 m (51 ft.) to 88.0 m (289 ft.) to permit the redevelopment of the existing
Jewish Community Centre (JCC) to include a new 9 storey private non-profit
community centre building with private childcare and a mixed-use building with
26- and 24-storey residential towers containing a total of 299 social housing
units, additional JCC uses and commercial uses at grade, be referred to a Public
Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by Acton Ostry Architects, received on March 16, 2018;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 950
West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-
noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue
(Jewish Community Centre)”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to the
enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by this report, subject to such terms

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 90
and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability,
and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT, if the application is referred to a Public Hearing, the application to amend
the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)”, be referred to
the same Public Hearing.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the Public Hearing.
D. THAT, subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Parking By-law be amended
to include this CD-1 and to provide parking regulations generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 950 West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Parking By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1 By-law.
E. THAT, subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended to include this CD-1 in Schedule A, generally as set out in Appendix C
of the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 950
West 41st Avenue (Jewish Community Centre)”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03214)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 91
9. East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan 10-year Review Planning Program:
Progress Update and By-law Amendments for a New Community Centre Site and
Affordable Housing
July 10, 2018
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan By-law No. 9393, generally in accordance with Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan 10-year Review Planning Program: Progress Update and
By-law Amendments for a New Community Centre Site and Affordable Housing”,
to achieve the following:
(i) A standalone site for a future community centre in East Fraser Lands; and
(ii) Increase the total density to allow for an additional 5,129 sq. m
(55,208 sq. ft.) of Affordable Housing in Area 1 and Area 2;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted
report, for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if the application to amend the East Fraser Lands Official Development
Plan By-law No. 9393, set out in A above, is referred to Public Hearing, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to
make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to:
(i) Amend CD-1 (567) By-law No. 10943 for the East Fraser Lands
Waterfront Precinct, to increase the maximum height from 19 to 24
storeys, reduce the maximum floor area from 112,961 sq. m
(1,215,902 sq. ft.) to 103,917 sq. m (1,118,552 sq. ft.) and make
housekeeping amendments, generally as presented in Appendix B of the
Policy Report dated July 10, 2018, entitled “East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan 10-year Review Planning Program: Progress Update
and By-law Amendments for a New Community Centre Site and
Affordable Housing”, subject to the conditions of approval contained in
Appendix C of the above-noted report;
(ii) Amend CD-1 (499) By-law No. 10195 for East Fraser Lands Area 2
South, to increase the maximum floor area from 106,743 sq. m
(1,148,963 sq. ft.) to 115,787 sq. m (1,246,311 sq. ft.) and make
housekeeping amendments generally as presented in Appendix D of the
above-noted report, subject to the conditions of approval contained in
Appendix E of the above-noted report;
(iii) Amend CD-1 (566) By-law No. 10941 for East Fraser Lands Town Square
Precinct, to add 1,770 sq. m (19,052 sq. ft.) of Affordable Housing on

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 92
Parcel 13, to increase the height from 20 storeys to 25 storeys, and make
housekeeping amendments generally as presented in Appendix F of the
above-noted report;
(iv) Amend CD-1 (498) By-law No. 10194 for East Fraser Lands Area 2 North,
to add 3,359 sq. m (36,156 sq. ft.) of Affordable Housing on Parcel 1, and
make housekeeping amendments generally as presented in Appendix G
of the above-noted report;
(v) Amend CD-1 (565) By-law No 10942 for East Fraser Lands Park Precinct
to make housekeeping amendments generally as presented in
Appendix H of the above-noted report; and
(vi) Amend Schedule C, Streets Requiring Landscaped Setbacks, to remove
the requirement for landscaped setbacks on sections of Boundary Road,
Kerr Street, and Kinross Street, generally as presented in Appendix I of
the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to the same Public Hearing as the
application set out in A above;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B, D, G, H and I of the
above-noted report, for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan By-law No. 9393 and the Zoning and Development By-law,
set out in A and B above, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward the following for Council adoption at
the time of enactment of the amending by-law:
(i) Updates to the Area 2 and Kerr Street Properties Design Guidelines,
generally as presented in Appendix J of the Policy Report dated
July 10, 2018, entitled “East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan
10-year Review Planning Program: Progress Update and By-law
Amendments for a New Community Centre Site and Affordable Housing”;
and
(ii) Updates to the Phase 1 Design Guidelines, generally as presented in
Appendix K of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT this be referred to the same Public Hearing.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 93
ii. THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
iii. THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03215)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
10. Parking By-law Updates to Achieve Transportation 2040 Actions
June 25, 2018
This item was referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at 9:30 am, to hear from speakers.
11. 2018 Annual Inflationary Adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions
July 16, 2018
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make application to implement inflationary rate adjustments to the Density Bonus
Contributions available in certain zoning districts by amending Schedule F of the Zoning
and Development By-law, to increase the values of the affordable housing and the
amenity shares to be effective September 30, 2018, as shown in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 16, 2018, entitled “2018 Annual Inflationary Adjustments to
Density Bonus Contributions”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a public hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the public hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03217)
OTHER REPORTS
1. Street Naming – Naming of New Streets and Street Extensions within the Pearson
Dogwood Development
July 3, 2018
A. THAT the new public street between Cambie Street and Heather Street, running
south from West 57th Avenue to West 59th Avenue, as shown on the graphic
attached as Appendix A of the Other Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled “Street

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 94
Naming – Naming of New Streets and Street Extensions within the Pearson
Dogwood Development”, be named “Paulson Street”.
B. THAT the new public street between Cambie Street and Heather Street, running
south from West 57th Avenue to the extension of West 58th Avenue, as shown
on the graphic attached as Appendix A of the Other Report dated July 3, 2018,
entitled “Street Naming – Naming of New Streets and Street Extensions within
the Pearson Dogwood Development”, be named “Markovich Street”.
C. THAT the new public street between West 57th Avenue and West 59th Avenue,
running west from Cambie Street as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix A of the Other Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled “Street Naming –
Naming of New Streets and Street Extensions within the Pearson Dogwood
Development”, be named “West 58th Avenue” as it is an extension of the existing
street.
D. That the new public street between West 57th Avenue and West 59th Avenue,
running east from Heather Street as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix A of the Other Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled “Street Naming –
Naming of New Streets and Street Extensions within the Pearson Dogwood
Development”, be named “West 58th Avenue” as it is an extension of the existing
street.
E. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
the appropriate amendments to the Street Name By-law.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03218)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
BY-LAWS
Councillor Bremner declared conflict of interest on by-law 6 as there is a relationship between
the client associated with the site and his employer, and by-law 26 due to past work.
Councillor De Genova advised she had reviewed the proceedings with regard to By-laws 5 and
7 and would be voting on the enactments.
Councillor Louie advised he had reviewed the proceedings with regard to By-law 6 and would
be voting on the enactment.
Councillors Affleck and Louie advised they had reviewed the proceedings with regard to
By-law 8 and would be voting on the enactment.
Councillors Jang and Ball advised they had reviewed the proceedings with regard to By-laws 9
and 12 and would be voting on the enactments.
Councillors Ball, Deal and Jang advised they had reviewed the proceedings with regard to
By-law 11 and would be voting on the enactment.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 95
Councillors Ball and De Genova advised they had reviewed the proceedings with regard to
By-laws 19 to 23 and by-law 26 and would be voting on the enactments.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 34 inclusive, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (3868-3898 Rupert Street and 3304
3308 East 22nd Avenue) (By-law No. 12168)
2. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (3868-3898 Rupert Street and 3304-3308
East 22nd Avenue) (By-law No. 12169)
(Mayor Robertson and Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote)
3. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (400 West Georgia Street and 725
731 Homer Street) (By-law No. 12170)
4. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 District Parking
Requirements (400 West Georgia Street and 725 731 Homer Street) (By-law No. 12171)
5. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (400 West Georgia Street and 725 731
Homer Street) (By-law No. 12172)
6. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (575 Drake Street - Covenant House) (By-law No. 12173)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote due to conflict of interest)
7. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (4238-4262 Cambie Street) (By-law No. 12174)
8. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (320 Granville Street) (By-law No. 12175)
(Councillors Bremner and De Genova ineligible to vote)
9. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1500 West Georgia Street) (By-law No. 12176)
10. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone and area to
CD-1 (8242 Oak Street) (By-law No. 12177)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 96
11. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (2109 East Hastings Street) (By-law No. 12178)
(Mayor Robertson ineligible to vote)
12. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1296 West Broadway) (By-law No. 12179)
13. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3625 Sawmill Crescent (By-law No. 12180)
14. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2221-2223 Main Street (By-law No. 12181)
15. A By-law to amend Area Specific Development Cost Levy By-law No. 9418 regarding
Grandview Boundary levies (By-law No. 12182)
16. A By-law to impose development cost levies for utilities in the City of Vancouver
(By-law No. 12183)
17. A By-law to amend Vancouver Development cost Levy By-law No. 9755 regarding the
for-profit affordable rental housing waiver (By-law No. 12184)
18. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 650 West 41st Avenue (Oakridge Centre)
(By-law No. 12185)
19. A By-law to amend CD-1 (696) By-law No. 12105 (500-650 West 57th Avenue)
(By-law No. 12186)
(Councillor Stevenson ineligible to vote)
20. A By-law to amend CD-1 (693) By-law No. 12034 (809 West 23rd Avenue)
(By-law No. 12187)
(Councillor Stevenson ineligible to vote)
21. A By-law to amend CD-1 (679) By-law No. 11930 (725-747 Southeast Marine Drive)
(By-law No. 12188)
(Councillor Stevenson ineligible to vote)
22. A By-law to amend CD-1 (562) By-law No. 10870 (508 Helmcken Street)
(By-law No. 12189)
(Councillor Stevenson ineligible to vote)
23. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (Miscellaneous Amendments Regarding CD
1 Districts) (By-law No. 12190)
(Councillor Stevenson ineligible to vote)
24. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (Miscellaneous Amendments
Regarding CD-1 Districts) (By-law No. 12191)
25. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 Miscellaneous amendments regarding
CD-1 Districts (By-law No. 12192)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 97
26. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 Text amendment
regarding Grocery Store with Liquor Store Use (By-law No. 12193)
(Councillor Stevenson ineligible to vote)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote due to conflict of interest)
27. A By-law to amend Ticket Offences By-law No. 9360 Regarding Reinstatement of
Enforcement Provisions for Stage 1 and 2 Water Restrictions (By-law No. 12194)
28. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (155 East 37th Avenue – Little Mountain) (By-law No. 12195)
(Councillor Bremner and Mayor Robertson ineligible to vote)
29. A By-law to amend License By-law No. 4450 Regarding Provincial Cannabis Legislation
(By-law No. 12196)
30. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement By-law for 33 West Cordova Street
(By-law No. 12197)
31. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement By-law for 33 West Cordova Street
(By-law No. 12198)
32. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 870 East 8th Avenue
(By-law No. 12199)
33. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 124 Dunlevy Avenue (Roddan Lodge)
(By-law No. 12200)
34. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1176 Burnaby Street (1177 Maxine Lane)
(By-law No. 12201)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development: 1280 Seymour Street - Covenant House
Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1280 Seymour Street
(formerly 575 Drake Street) be approved generally as illustrated in the Development
Application Number DP-2017-00250., prepared by Wanda Felt of NSDA Architects, and
stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on
November 9, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 98
approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the development
character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Approval of Form of Development: 3625 Sawmill Crescent
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as East Fraser Lands
Park Precinct (3625 Sawmill Crescent being the application address) be approved
generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2017-01227.,
prepared by Anca Hurst of Rostich Hemphill Architects, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on June 7, 2018, provided that the
Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would
not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Approval of Form of Development: 801 Pacific Street
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 801 Pacific Street be
approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2017-00497., prepared by Martin Bruckner of IBI group, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on February 26, 2018, provided
that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Approval of Form of Development: 989 West 67th Avenue (Formerly 8242 Oak
Street)
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 989 West 67th
Avenue be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2017-01162, prepared by Jalil Azizi of IBI Group, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on January 3, 2018, provided that
the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 99
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Approval of Form of Development: 320 Granville Street
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 320 Granville Street
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2016-
00666, prepared by Chris Dikeakos Architects, and stamped “Received, Community
Services, Development Services”, on November 24, 2016, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
6. Approval of Form of Development: 809 West 23rd Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 809 West 23rd
Avenue (be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2017-00818, prepared by EDG Homes Ltd., and stamped “Received, Community
Services Group, Development Services”, on July 12, 2018, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
7. Little Mountain Design Guidelines
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the document entitled “Little Mountain Design Guidelines” be approved by Council
for use by applicants and staff for development applications in the relevant district.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 100
B. Motions on Notice
1. Establishing a “Materials for the Arts” Creative Reuse Program in the City of
Vancouver
The motion below contains changes from the original notice of motion which were accepted by
Council.
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. A vibrant arts and cultural scene is important to any truly liveable city;
2. Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver appreciate the value the arts
bring to the lives of our citizens and to the life of our city;
3. The City of Vancouver has a Culture Plan with the core vision to develop,
enliven, enhance, and promote arts, culture, and cultural diversity in Vancouver,
including a Cultural Grants Program that supports a wide range of arts and
cultural activity;
4. The City of Vancouver is developing a new, comprehensive Creative City
Strategy that aims to work with the arts, culture, and creative communities to
identify priorities to guide Vancouver’s future efforts and investments, including a
firm commitment to address equity, diversity, and inclusion, as well as to build a
culture of reconciliation through close collaboration with the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations;
5. Vancouver City Council’s longstanding support for arts and culture has resulted
in a city that is alive with creativity, whether it be amazing music, dance, new
media, theatre, festivals, film, design, exhibitions, galleries, museums, or special
arts and culture events;
6. Vancouver's arts and cultural community is an ecosystem made up of many
stakeholders, diverse media, infrastructure, and processes that intersect and
work alongside each other in many different ways;
7. The Vancouver Charter requires Vancouver City Council to prepare and adopt a
Regional Context Statement in support of the Regional Growth Strategy to show
how Vancouver’s polices and plans work toward achieving the goals and
strategies set out in the Regional Growth Strategy including fostering the creation
of vibrant centres of culture and community activities, maintaining an attractive
and diverse urban environment, building healthy, complete communities, and
ensuring the basics of life – breathable air, potable water, and nutritious food;
8. Under the Greenest City Action Plan, the City of Vancouver has a strategy for
staying on the leading edge of urban sustainability, and has established a target

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 101
to reduce solid waste going to the landfill or an incinerator by 50% from 2008
levels, with a long-term strategic vision to achieve the goal of zero waste by
2040;
9. Many materials that might otherwise end up in the landfill, or go to an incinerator,
have the potential for creative reuse by Vancouver’s diverse arts and culture
community;
10. “Materials for the Arts” (MFTA) – founded in 1978 – is New York City’s largest
creative reuse centre and is dedicated to supporting arts and cultural
organizations;
11. Millions of students, choreographers, dancers, actors, set designers, art
therapists, after school providers and senior citizens have been positively
impacted by the work of MFTA over the years;
12. MFTA diverts over 1 million pounds of materials from the landfill each year by
collecting reusable materials from businesses and individuals and making these
donations available for free of charge to various arts, culture, non-profit, and
educational organizations and individuals;
13. By diverting materials from New York’s waste stream, MFTA annually offsets 25
times the CO2 emissions from the trees in New York’s Central Park;
14. MFTA’s 35,000-square-foot warehouse is operated by the New York City
Department of Cultural Affairs, with additional support from the City's
Departments of Sanitation and of Education, and included an efficient online
donations system as well as robust education and volunteer programs;
15. MFTA is supported in part by the “Friends of Materials for the Arts” as a
non-profit partner with a mandate to support initiatives in the areas of education
and community outreach to serve a broader audience.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to explore
the creation of a “Materials for the Arts” program in the City of Vancouver, with the goal
to support the city’s arts and culture community and educational institutions including the
Vancouver School Board, while also providing a new mechanism for diverting usable
materials from the City’s waste stream for creative reuse by the city’s arts and culture
community, and for staff to report back to Council in early December 2018 with
preliminary recommendations;
FURTHER THAT Vancouver City Council also direct staff to explore options and
opportunities for a non-profit support entity similar to New York’s “Friends of Materials for
the Arts”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03179)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 102
2. Mandatory Green Roofs
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
WHEREAS
1. Climate change is predicted to produce wetter winters, hotter, drier summers,
and more extreme rainstorms in the Vancouver area, which the City’s
infrastructure was not built to accommodate. Climate change impacts are already
being felt in Vancouver and are accelerating;
2. Green roofs mitigate climate change impacts. They absorb greenhouse gas
emissions (GhGs), absorb rainwater, reduce stormwater volumes, peak flows
and related flooding, and reduce GhGs related to heating and cooling (buildings
currently account for over 50 percent of Vancouver’s GhG emissions);
3. Green roofs contribute to a better quality of life. They reduce the urban “heat
island” effect, insulate buildings from summer heat and winter cold, provide more
comfortable indoor temperatures year-round, insulate buildings from noise, and
improve air quality by absorbing particulates and pollutants. They provide a more
natural visual aesthetic for residents and workers in multi storey buildings looking
down on the roofs of other buildings, an increasingly common reality for many
Vancouverites;
4. Green roofs can offer opportunities for urban agriculture, support biodiversity and
provide urban habitat for wildlife struggling to cope with changing weather
patterns, including birds and pollinating insects such as bees and butterflies;
5. Green roofs save money by reducing the costs to heat and cool buildings,
extending the life expectancy of a roof by double or triple the time, and lowering
the municipal costs of managing storm water runoff;
6. Green roofs were identified as one possible policy direction for Vancouver’s
“Rain City Strategy”, a strategy in development for deploying green infrastructure
to effectively manage rainwater and included in the Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan best management practice toolkit;
7. Cities such as Toronto, San Francisco, and Copenhagen already require green
roofs on all new commercial, institutional, industrial and multi-family residential
developments.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT as part of the Rain City Strategy, staff bring
back a draft policy for Council’s consideration that would require all new commercial,
institutional, industrial and multi-family residential developments to incorporate green
roofs and provide maximum opportunity for green roofs in renovations to older
commercial, institutional, industrial and multi-family residential development.
referred

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 103
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Mandatory Green Roofs”, to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at
9:30 am, to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Council recessed at 6:00 pm and reconvened at 6:36 pm.
* * * * *
3. Opportunities for Short-Term Rental Accommodations to Contribute to Affordable
Housing in the City of Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver defines a short-term rental as “a home, or room within,
rented for less than 30 days at a time”;
2. To meet the City of Vancouver requirements for a Short Term Rental, the home
must be the principal residence of the applicant and a license is required;
3. Three by-laws passed by City Council, amend existing by-laws and allow the City
of Vancouver to license Short-Term Rentals and enforce rules against short term
rentals that operate without a business license from the City of Vancouver;
4. The City of Vancouver is in an affordability and housing crisis and is in need of
effective solutions to this crisis;
5. The City of Vancouver webpage dedicated to Short Term Rental Accommodation
Information acknowledges that short term rentals allow individuals to earn
additional income, provides short-term accommodation options within the city
and supports Vancouver’s tourism industry. Council heard public testimony from
a number of short-term rental operators who rely on this income to pay their
mortgages and save for education or retirement;
6. Council has not been presented with data showing the amount of long term rental
housing supply that has been added to the market because of the City of
Vancouver’s Short Term Rental Accommodation Business License, enforcement
policies and regulation;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 104
7. The City of Vancouver cites a main reason of the new short-term rental licensing
and policy framework as a way to increase the supply of long term rental
housing;
8. Other cities including Seattle, have adopted ordinances allowing for regulated
growth in the short-term rental and vacation rental markets while applying a
nightly tax on stays to fund affordable housing initiatives.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to work with short term rental platforms and other cities
that have implemented short term rental regulations, restrictions and taxes and
report back with the metrics as to how a tax and allowing short term rentals can
contribute to funding city-led initiatives for affordable housing;
FURTHER THAT staff include this information in any further reports to Council
this term that address short term rental housing.
B. THAT Council direct staff to provide a memo to Council, at least two weeks in
advance of any report or recommendations pertinent to Short Term Rental.
FURTHER THAT the memo include specific statistics supporting the impact the
City of Vancouver Short Term Rental License Regulations have had on
transitioning short term rental accommodations to the long term rental market in
Vancouver and the cost of enforcement, including staff time, any new positions
and any legal action the City of Vancouver has taken against short-term rentals
in violation of City of Vancouver regulations.
referred
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the motion entitled “Opportunities for Short-Term Rental Accommodations to
Contribute to Affordable Housing in the City of Vancouver”, be referred back to staff to
be included in their ongoing work on short term rentals.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03220)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 105
4. Support for the Kettle Society and the City of Vancouver’s Commitment to
Resources for Mental Health, Ending Homelessness and Supportive Housing
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
WHEREAS
1. Established over forty years ago, the Kettle Society provides 26 supportive
services including over 200 units of supportive housing, a transition house for
women and mental health drop-in centre to 5000 individuals facing mental health
issues in Vancouver;
2. The Kettle Society also advocates and raises awareness for mental health
issues, breaking down barriers and working against stigma of mental illness and
promotes the inclusion of people living with mental illness in the community;
3. Vancouver is facing a housing and affordability crisis and appropriate housing
can be more difficult to find for individuals facing mental health issues and who
require supportive housing;
4. Published in 2014, The Mayor’s Task Force for Mental Health and Addictions put
forward 23 priority actions. The first recommendation “Work Better Together and
Address Service Gaps” states “The City’s role includes work in the areas of
housing, services provided through community centres, libraries, funding
non-profit organizations which provide outreach and peer supports”;
5. On September 25, 2012, the final report from the Mayor’s Task Force on Housing
and Affordability was presented to City Council. The section titled “The
Challenge” acknowledges “The Task Force recognizes that homelessness, low
income and supportive housing continue to be critical issues facing Vancouver.”
Furthermore, the report recommends “Housing and Homelessness Strategy:
Housing Continuum.” The Strategy lists “Supportive Housing” as one of the three
categories listed under “Ending Homelessness”;
6. Vancouver’s Housing and Homelessness Strategy 2012-2021 recommends in
Section six, titled “Implementation and Performance” under “Ending
Homelessness” on the Housing Continuum “Supportive Housing: number and
location of new units.” The report also acknowledges and states “The majority of
homeless have mental health and addiction issues;
7. The City of Vancouver’s 10 Year Affordable Housing Delivery and Financial
Strategy (2018-2027) states “Housing Vancouver further sets ambitious new
targets for social and supportive housing, identifying the needs for 12,000 new
units of social and supportive housing over the next 10 years.” The introduction
to the report states that 4,640 units of social and supportive housing have been
approved. The report goes on to state “However, the need remains significant
and lessons from the past decade have demonstrated that meeting our new

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 106
enhances targets will require sustained partnerships and re-focused approaches
to affordable housing delivery”;
8. June 5, 2018 the Policy Report titled “Affordable Housing Delivery and Financial
Strategy and Annual Progress Report and Housing Vancouver Data Book” was
delivered to Council. The Report Summary acknowledges that social and
supportive housing are the most challenging housing units to deliver, as the
greatest level of subsidy and investment required;
9. The Kettle Society worked in partnership with a development partner for seven
years towards providing 30 units of supportive housing of integrated community
living for individuals with mental illness. The plan for the project also included an
expanded drop-in centre, which would allow the Kettle to meet their needs for
more space to serve more people with mental health issues on a daily basis;
10. On June 19, 2018 The Kettle Society and Boffo Projects publicly announced the
cancellation of the project, concluding in their public remarks at the time that the
project was financially unviable.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirm support for The Kettle Society as a non-profit organization
that serves thousands of people annually and provides resources to individuals
and families facing mental health issues and homelessness in the City of
Vancouver.
B. THAT Council direct staff to work with The Kettle Society to consider potential
opportunities for The Kettle Society to move forward with their longstanding plans
to develop an expanded drop-in centre and at least 30 units of community
integrated supportive housing for individuals struggling with mental health issues
and homelessness in Vancouver.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Support for the Kettle Society and the City of
Vancouver’s Commitment to Resources for Mental Health, Ending Homelessness and
Supportive Housing”, to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at 9:30 am, to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 107
5. Bike Parking Retrofit Program for Existing Residential Developments
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver stated in its Transportation 2040 Plan that one of its
directions is to “make cycling safe, convenient, comfortable, and fun for people of
all ages and abilities”, and that one of the policies and actions identified to
achieve that direction is to “develop a retrofit program to make it easier to add
bicycle parking and other end-of-trip facilities to existing buildings.” (Section C
2.1.2.);
2. A memorandum to Mayor and Council from Engineering Services, dated
November 30, 2016, recommended the following four policies and actions to
advance the Transportation 2040 Plan direction:
i. Create a set of design guidelines and example layouts based on best
practices for building owners and consultants;
ii. Simplify the permitting process for requests for retrofit bicycle parking;
iii. Support requests from building owners and empower users through the
creation of tools, forms, and templates for their use;
iv. Generate interest in retrofitting buildings through community events, the
City of Vancouver web site, and other methods;
3. A 2016 City of Vancouver survey found that there was a deficit of up to 210,000
bike parking spaces in existing buildings, and that 20% of respondents described
bike parking facilities in their building as inadequate or insecure;
4. The Coming to a Stop Report, from the 2015 Greenest City Scholars Program,
found that existing by-laws provide few incentives, and several deterrents, to bike
parking retrofit efforts. It reviewed a number of jurisdictions, such as San
Francisco and Toronto, which have used relatively minor by-law reforms to
incentivise retrofits. It concluded that the City of Vancouver should study by-law
reform in other jurisdictions, adopt best practices, and encourage and assist
retrofits through an easy to use Retrofit Program;
5. The Active Transportation Policy Council has identified this as a priority item and
passed a motion to that effect on July 4, 2018.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to:
• Ensure that policies and actions previously identified as necessary to advance
the creation of bicycle parking facilities in existing residential buildings, and as
committed to in the Transportation 2040 Plan, are pursued in anticipation of
timely implementation;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 108
• Initiate work in 2018 on an effective retrofit program to make it easier to add
bicycle parking and other end-of-trip facilities to existing buildings, utilizing the
recommendations from a number of existing studies and reports.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03181)
6. City Asset Renaming Policy
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
WHEREAS
1. On March 28, 2017, Council unanimously passed a motion entitled “150+ Place
Naming Project”
https://council.vancouver.ca/20170328/documents/motionb2.pdf;
2. As part of that motion, Council committed to “Determine the circumstances when,
if ever, a street or public asset name can be replaced”;
3. Currently the City of Vancouver is not able to rename a city asset;
4. From time to time the City receives requests from residents concerned about
names on city assets that may be particularly offensive in a modern context;
5. Over the past 16 months both the Civic Asset Naming Committee and staff have
looked at developing a policy but been unable to bring a recommendation to
Council;
6. The City of Toronto has a simple but effective policy for public requests to
rename city assets, including streets (section 6 at this link
https://www.toronto.ca/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/8b5c-ecs-enginfo-2017-
street-naming-policy.pdf)
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council adopt the attached policy for renaming
city assets and direct staff to amend the City of Vancouver’s naming policy to include the
ability for renaming generally in accordance with the attached:
PROPOSED RENAMING POLICY
A proposal to rename a City street, place, or building is to be made using the “Suggest a
Name” and at a minimum is to include:
• Rationale for changing the name and significance of the proposed name;
• Relevance of the proposed name to the asset;
• Documented support, including but not limited to petitions and support letters,
from at least 75 percent of property owners that abut the street, place or building;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 109
• A map or an illustration, including major intersections of a street to be renamed;
and
• Proposed names that portray indigenous significance or are after an indigenous
individual, organization or event will require consultation with the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh band councils, or their designates, and adherence
to appropriate indigenous practices or protocols.
Proposed renaming of assets will be considered using the same process as is used for
names for new and unnamed assets.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
THAT the following bullet be added to the Proposed Renaming Policy:
• Staff led public consultation
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the bullet point “Staff led public consultation” be struck.
FURTHER THAT the words “including public consultation” be added at the end of the
Proposed Renaming Policy.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03182)
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the motion entitled “City Asset Renaming Policy, be referred to staff for a deeper
look and to confer with the Vancouver School Board regarding renaming processes.
LOST (Vote No. 03183)
(Councillors Ball, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson, and Mayor Robertson opposed)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 110
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the words “Resident Initiated” be inserted in the title of the Policy to read:
“PROPOSED RESIDENT INITIATED RENAMING POLICY”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03184)
Following the votes on the amendments and referral, the main motion as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03185).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. On March 28, 2017, Council unanimously passed a motion entitled “150+ Place
Naming Project”
https://council.vancouver.ca/20170328/documents/motionb2.pdf;
2. As part of that motion, Council committed to “Determine the circumstances when,
if ever, a street or public asset name can be replaced”;
3. Currently the City of Vancouver is not able to rename a city asset;
4. From time to time the City receives requests from residents concerned about
names on city assets that may be particularly offensive in a modern context;
5. Over the past 16 months both the Civic Asset Naming Committee and staff have
looked at developing a policy but been unable to bring a recommendation to
Council;
6. The City of Toronto has a simple but effective policy for public requests to
rename city assets, including streets (section 6 at this link
https://www.toronto.ca/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/8b5c-ecs-enginfo-2017-
street-naming-policy.pdf)
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council adopt the attached policy for renaming
city assets and direct staff to amend the City of Vancouver’s naming policy to include the
ability for renaming generally in accordance with the attached:
PROPOSED RESIDENT INITIATED RENAMING POLICY
A proposal to rename a City street, place, or building is to be made using the “Suggest a
Name” and at a minimum is to include:
• Rationale for changing the name and significance of the proposed name;
• Relevance of the proposed name to the asset;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 111
• Documented support, including but not limited to petitions and support letters,
from at least 75 percent of property owners that abut the street, place or building;
• A map or an illustration, including major intersections of a street to be renamed;
and
• Proposed names that portray indigenous significance or are after an indigenous
individual, organization or event will require consultation with the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh band councils, or their designates, and adherence
to appropriate indigenous practices or protocols.
Proposed renaming of assets will be considered using the same process as is used for
names for new and unnamed assets, including public consultation.
7. City of Vancouver Led Efforts to Assist the Province of B.C. to Prevent and Report
Money Laundering in Vancouver and the Lower Mainland
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
WHEREAS
1. Peter German’s report titled “Dirty Money: An Independent Review of Money
Laundering in Lower Mainland Casinos conducted for the Attorney General of
British Columbia”;
2. The media reported that Mr. German estimates over $100 million dollars has
been laundered in B.C.;
3. In “Dirty Money” Mr. German states in his executive summary “It is about those
who purchase illegal drugs, counterfeit products, and stolen property, as well as
those who operate in the underground economy and subvert tax laws. It is our
problem, not China’s problem”;
4. Mr. German also states in his report the most lucrative crimes in Vancouver are
related to illegal drug sales. The drugs of choice cover the spectrum, from natural
products such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin, to chemical creations such as
opioids and hallucinogens;
5. Mr. German’s review specifically references federal reporting and provincial
reporting. He also references Joint Illegal Gaming Investigative Teams (JIGIT)
and their plans to work with municipalities. “JIGIT is drafting a plan to engage
with and assist municipalities to better leverage and conduct inspections of
residences suspected to house illegal businesses, including gaming houses, and
enforce by-laws”;
6. The City of Vancouver implemented an amendment to the zoning by-law for
Medical Marijuana Related Use (MMRU) Licenses in 2015. License fees
collected range between $1000 and $31,824 annually and the City of Vancouver

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 112
has collected fines ranging from $250-$1000 from dispensaries without a MMRU
license;
7. Although the City of Vancouver does not require MMRU operators or businesses
operating without a license to show the source of the funds that pay for the
license or fees, it is possible that this money collected by the City of Vancouver
could be from the sale of illegal drugs; and
8. The City of Vancouver Empty Homes Tax (Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674) was
implemented in 2017 by City Council, collecting 1% of the property’s assessed
taxable value if the property is left vacant. Currently, there is no system to
confirm if the money collected by the City is directly or indirectly linked to money
laundering.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the Mayor write a letter on behalf of Council to the Attorney General of
British Columbia, and affirm the City of Vancouver’s support to work with the
Province of B.C., the Joint Illegal Gaming Investigative Teams (JIGIT), and when
appropriate, the Vancouver Police Department and the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police to prevent money laundering that could be directly or indirectly linked to
businesses operating with or without a business license in the City of Vancouver;
and
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to work with the Attorney General’s office,
the Province of B.C. and the appropriate police authorities to identify a system
where the City of Vancouver can share pertinent information with the appropriate
authorities to prevent and deter money laundering.
B. THAT Council direct staff to review the possibility of a system that would help to
identify funds received by the City of Vancouver that are more likely to be a result
of money laundering or from the proceeds of crime. Furthermore that staff report
back in September 2018 with any recommendations as to how the City of
Vancouver can share this information with the Province of B.C. and the
appropriate police agencies.
referred
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the motion entitled “City of Vancouver Led Efforts to Assist the Province of B.C. to
Prevent and Report Money Laundering in Vancouver and the Lower Mainland”, be
referred to staff for a memorandum outlining roles and responsibilities of City
departments and agencies in regards to casino operations in the city of Vancouver.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03186)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and De Genova opposed)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 113
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT Councillor Stevenson be granted Leave of Absence for personal reasons
for meetings to be held August 2, 2018.
B. THAT Councillor Ball be granted Leave of Absence for Medical Reasons for any
meetings to be held between September 4 and September 14, 2018.
C. THAT Councillor Carr be granted Leave of Absence for personal reasons for any
meetings to be held July 26, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03225)
2. Request for Leave of Absence – Councillor Reimer
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Councillor Reimer be granted Leave of Absence for personal reasons for
meetings to be held September 5, 6 and 14, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03224)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Recent Tragedy in Vancouver
Councillor Reimer noted the recent death of a woman who died in a clothing donation bin in
Vancouver, and requested information on the tragedy and possible prevention. The City
Manager agreed to report back.
2. Hastings Street
Councillor De Genova requested information on the status of the street market on Hastings
Street. The City Manager agreed to provide a memo.
3. Public Access to Privately-Owned Public Spaces
Councillor Ball noted a recent motion put forward by the Seniors’ Advisory Committee regarding
“Ensuring Public Access to Privately-Owned Public Spaces”, and asked the City Manager to
provide comments. The City Manager agreed.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, July 24, 2018 114
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 7:39 pm.
* * * * *