PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 18, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, July 18, 2018, at 6:09 pm,
in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie*
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager (Item 1)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to Zoning and Development and Building
By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillors De Genova, Jang and Louie absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law and
Building By-law – Accessible Path of Travel Policy Review
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law and the Vancouver Building
By-law (VBBL) to mandate an accessible path of travel for specified
low-density housing types, and to regain living space required to meet 2014
VBBL adaptable housing requirements in one- and two-family dwellings, with
or without a secondary suite (on sites with a frontage of 10.06 metres or less).
Council also had before it a memorandum dated July 17, 2018, from the Assistant Director,
City-Wide and Regional Planning, which provided a summary of feedback from two recent
meetings with the Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee, the Seniors’ Advisory
Committee, representatives of disability associations and disability and seniors’ self-advocates,
held on June 26 and July 10, 2018, following referral of the Accessible Path of Travel Policy
Review to Public Hearing on June 19, 2018.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 2 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 3 pieces of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Danielle Wiley, Development Planner, City-Wide and Regional Planning Division, reviewed the
application and, along with Chris Robertson, Assistant Director, City-Wide and Regional
Planning Division, responded to questions.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the recommendations. Concerns raised included 20%
visitability requirement for new townhouses and /rowhouses, mandating accessible path of
travel for laneway homes in rear lanes and waiving adaptability requirements on upper levels of
dwelling units:
Colleen McGuinness, Chair, Seniors Advisory Committee
Jacques Courteau, Co-Chair, Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee
Ewa Caldwell, The Parasol Foundation Canada
Jocelyn Maffin, Spinal Cord Injury BC, Manager, Information Resources
Mary-jo Fetterly
Laura Mackenrot
Jane Vorbrodt, Kuno Architecture Inc.
Tasia Alexis, Assistant Director - Residential and Supported Living, Developmental
Disabilities Association
Linda McGowan
Jill Weiss

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 3
Marilyn Hogan
Vince Miele
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:48 pm.
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT discussion and decision on the application “TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law and Building By-law - Accessible Path of Travel
Policy Review”, be referred to the Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, as
Unfinished Business with a start time of 2:00 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03161)
Note: due to a scheduling conflict, the above-noted application will be considered immediately
following Unfinished Business item 1 on the Regular Council Agenda for July 24, 2018.
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law -
Laneway Home Regulations
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to make it easier and more cost
effective to build laneway houses and to improve livability of laneway houses.
Key amendments include introducing an outright review process for one and a
half storey laneway homes, changing the method of measuring height, increasing
maximum allowable height, introducing minimum room size requirements, and
providing more flexibility for siting one-storey laneway houses.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated July 4, 2018, from the General Manager,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, to advise of a consequential amendment to
Section 10.33.2 of the Zoning and Development By-law which is necessary to update a
reference to Section 11.24 (laneway house regulations) and that the amendment is reflected in
A of the Summary and Recommendation.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 9 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 15 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 2 pieces of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 4
Staff Opening Comments
Paul Huber, Senior Planner, Community Planning, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability,
presented the application.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Jake Fry spoke in support of the application and requested Council direct staff to expedite the
permit process even more to make laneway homes even more accessible.
The following spoke in opposition to the application and expressed concerns with the lack of
meaningful consultation and the loss of existing, affordable housing stock:
Barbara May
Penny Noble
Larry Benge, Coalition of Vancouver, Neighbourhood, Co-Chair
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:22 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Ms. Huber provided clarification on concerns raised by some of the speakers.
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT discussion and decision on the application “TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law - Laneway Home Regulations”, be referred to the
Regular Council meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03162)
3. REZONING: 988 West 64th Avenue and 8030-8130 Oak Street
An application by Arno Matis Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 988 West 64th Avenue and 8030-8130 Oak Street from RS-1
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District
to permit the development of three six-storey residential buildings containing a
total of 130 market residential units. A maximum height of 21.8 metres
(71.6 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.50 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 5
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 2 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:32 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Arno Matis Architecture on behalf of Oak & 64th
Nominee Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 988 West 64th Avenue and
8030-8130 Oak Street [Lot 1, Except the West 7 Feet and the East 10 Feet,
Now Highways, Block 15; and Lots 2 to 7, Except the West 7 Feet and the
East 10 Feet, Now Highways, of Lot 15, all of Block B District Lots 319, 323 and
324 Plan 1685; PIDs: 002-925-214, 015-619-613, 014-438,062, 008-762-309,
014-434-997, 011-952-792, and 014-435-021, respectively], from RS-1
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.50 and to increase the
maximum building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 21.8 m (71.6 ft.), to permit the
development of three six-storey residential buildings containing a total of
130 market residential units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated June 5, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 988 West 64th Avenue and
8030-8130 Oak Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Arno Matis Architecture and received
December 13, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow
minor alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the usability of the two courtyards
and animate them by:
(i) Reorienting some of the balconies away from the courtyard
and instead face Oak Street or the lane;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 6
(ii) Further widening the courtyards’ aperture at the Oak Street
side;
(iii) Removing the fence and gates at the courtyards’ ends;
(iv) Relocating the amenity rooms of Buildings A and B to each
face a courtyard; and
(v) Providing some seating elements at either ends of the
courtyards.
Note to Applicant: The intention is to increase the amount of solar
access into the courtyards, hence allowing them to be used more
often throughout the year. Reducing the number of balconies
hanging over the courtyards will also provide more air space and
offer volumetric relief between the buildings. Further widening the
courtyards’ apertures at the Oak Street side and providing some
seating elements are meant to make them more welcoming and
allow more solar access, especially the afternoon sun. The seating
elements can be built into the landscape design.
2. Design development to further animate the mid-block connection
by:
(i) Further widening the pathway opening at Oak Street side;
(ii) Providing some seating elements along the connection,
especially at either ends;
(iii) Relocating some of the balconies away from the mid-block
connection and instead face Oak Street or the lane; and
(iv) Defining an outdoor amenity area that is clearly connected
to Building C’s amenity room.
Note to Applicant: This is to signal the mid-block connection as
part of the public realm, and is accessible to the public.
3. Design development to further introduce variations between
Buildings A and B by:
(i) Varying the massing and layout while maintaining a clear
upper-storey setback for the fifth and sixth floors;
(ii) Varying the ratio and location of the various clad-material
and windows; and
(iii) Varying the balcony locations and sizes.
Note to Applicant: This is to better respond to the Marpole
Community Plan’s recommendation to express a consistent and
strong architectural concept while providing some degree of
variation.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 7
4. Design development to improve the loading stall’s accessibility by
providing access path(s) from it to all three buildings within the site
itself.
Note to Applicant: Providing onsite paths from the loading stall to
the buildings may require redesign of the private patio spaces, the
courtyards, and potentially the ground-floor layout of some of the
buildings.
5. Design development to ensure all fenestration locations and sizes
will meet the sustainability measures as defined by the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings.
6. The proposed unit mix, including 31 studios (24%),
49 one-bedroom units (38%), 36 two-bedroom units (28%), and
14 three-bedroom units (11%), is to be included in the
Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be suitable for
families with children.
7. Incorporation of the principles of the City of Vancouver
Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for the protection, enhancement
and creation of bird habitat and to reduce potential threats to birds
in the City.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the following documents for more
details:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentB.
pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentC.
pdf
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
8. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 8
Landscape Design
9. Design development to increase the overall planting area to the
ground floor patios, shared open space and rooftop.
Note to Applicant: This will require integration of the landscape
design and the structural plan. The amount of area dedicated to
paving should be decreased, where possible, while maintaining
functionality. This can be done by widening linear planters to
minimum 0.6 m width, increasing the width of proposed tree
planters or adding tree planters, wherever possible. Access
locations and walkways may need to be relocated. Soil depths
should exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard. At the perimeter of
the building the slab can be angled downward (1 m across and
1.2 m down) to maximize contiguous soil volumes. Further
comments may be outstanding at the development permit stage.
10. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and public
realm.
11. Design development to the Integrated Rainwater Management
Strategy to explore opportunities for onsite rain water infiltration
and soil absorption, as follows:
(i) Maximize natural landscape best management practices;
(ii) Minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water
storage;
(iii) Increase the amount of planting to the rooftop areas,
where possible;
(v) Consider linear infiltration bio-swales along property lines;
(vi) Use permeable paving;
(vii) Employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever
possible); and
(vii) Use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage
areas.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the City of Vancouver Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP), Vol.1 & 2 for further
information. A consulting engineer (subject matter expert) will
need to be engaged and early phase soil analysis will be needed.
Further comments may be outstanding at the development permit
stage.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 9
12. Provision of plans, plan details and documentation/calculations
that support integrated rainwater management, including
absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and detention systems, as
follows:
(i) Detailed stormwater report with calculations describing
how the various best management practices contribute to
the quality and quantity targets;
(ii) A separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic grading
indicating intent to direct rainwater to infiltration zones; and
(iii) An overlay plan that shows amount and ratio of vegetative
cover (green roof), permeable/impermeable hardscaping
and notations describing the storage location of rainwater
falling on each surface, including roofs.
Note to Applicant: In determining the amount of rainwater
absorbed by landscaped areas, calculations should only give
credit to rain falling directly onto soils or directed from hard
surfaces to infiltration zones (to be shown on the grading plan).
13. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping;
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1’ scale minimum.
The Plant list should include the common and botanical name,
size and quantity of all existing/proposed plant material. Plant
material should be clearly illustrated on the Plan and keyed to the
Plant List. The Landscape Plan should include the public realm
treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed street trees,
adjoining walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista transformers
and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire hydrants.
14. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4" scale) through common open spaces, semi-private
patio areas and the public realm.
Note to Applicant: The sections should illustrate the slab design
and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy and any
associated landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas,
illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside
dimension), soil, root ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and
portions of the adjacent building, such as residential units or
amenity rooms.
15. Provision of a “Tree Management Plan”;
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management
plan become the primary document for tree removal/protection
related matters. Attach a large scale tree management sheet
(same size sheet as architectural sheets) to the landscape plan
submission.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 10
16. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the development
permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building
permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604-871-6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604-257-8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final
spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall
be 8 feet long and 18 inches in depth. Planting depth of root ball
must be below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection
after tree planting completion".
17. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose
bibs for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation connection
points and hose bib symbols accurately and provide a highlighted
note to verify the irrigation is to be designed and constructed.
Hose bibs are requested to encourage patio gardening and hand
watering on private patio and amenity decks.
18. Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical landscape
structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis, pergola, privacy
screens).
19. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Consider “CPTED” principles and avoid any
lighting that can cause glare to residents.
Sustainability
20. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 11
21. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing buildings
on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition waste
(excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
Engineering
22. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
23. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
24. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
25. Please place the following statement on the Landscape Plan:
“This plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted
for review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to
the start of any construction proposed for public property. No work
on public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
26. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning. Where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to Engineering for
review.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 12
27. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from the
location shown without reliance on the lane for extended bin
storage. If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.
28. Design development to improve access and design of bicycle
parking and comply with the Bicycle Parking Design Supplement
and the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as
follows:
(i) Provision of stair free access to the Class A bicycle
parking.
(ii) Provision of additional design details and equipment
specifications for the stacking bicycle racks to ensure racks
are designed for all ages and abilities. Confirm sufficient
manoeuver aisle width is provided to accommodate the
bicycle stacking system.
(iii) Provision of 1.2 m for manoeuver aisle width for the bicycle
parking.
(iv) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle storage rooms.
(v) Provision of alcoves for bike room access off the vehicle
parking ramp and maneuvering aisle.
Note to Applicant: All Class B bike parking to be provided on
private property and should not encroach in any way on public
property.
(vi) Provision of convenient, internal, stair-free loading access,
to/from all elevator lobbies and the Class B loading bay.
Note to Applicant: Consider providing a second loading bay on
site.
(vii) Provision of a clear unloading area with suitable access to
facilitate loading/unloading.
(viii) Provision of additional design details clarifying how the
Class B loading bay is being delineated and signed. Clarify
if curb is proposed for the loading bay or if paving and
signage is being provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 13
(ix) Provision of parabolic mirrors at the bottom of the main
parkade ramp and at the top and bottom of the circulation
ramp from P1 to P2 for improved visibility.
Note to Applicant: Explore relocation of parkade access, or
provision of other measures to improve visibility and to reduce
conflicts between the main parkade ramp and the mid-block
connection.
29. Column encroachments, setbacks and parking space widths to
comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement.
(i) Column encroachments are not permitted in single module
stalls.
(ii) Provision of additional stall width for stalls next to walls,
including next to parking gates.
30. The following information is required for drawing submission at the
development permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation
review:
(i) Provision of a complete tech table showing the calculations
for the minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces
and the number of spaces being provided.
(ii) All types of parking and loading spaces are to be
individually numbered, and labelled on the drawings.
(iii) Provide dimensions of column encroachments into parking
stalls.
(iv) Show all columns in the parking layouts.
(v) Provide dimensions for typical parking spaces.
(vi) Dimensions of additional setbacks for parking spaces due
to columns and walls.
(vii) Dimensions of manoeuver aisles and the drive aisles at the
parkade entrance and all gates.
(viii) Section drawings showing elevations and minimum vertical
clearances for parking levels, loading bays, ramps, and
security gates. These clearances must consider
mechanical projections and built obstructions.
(ix) Areas of minimum vertical clearances labelled on parking
levels.
(x) Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and drive
aisles at all breakpoints, loading bays, disability spaces,
and at all entrances. The slope and length of the ramped

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 14
sections at all breakpoints to be shown on the submitted
drawings.
(xi) Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside. Stair ramps are not
generally acceptable.
(xii) Existing street furniture including bus stops, benches etc.
to be shown on plans.
(xiii) The location of all poles and guy wires to be shown on the
site plan.
Note to Applicant: The existing wood pole in lane conflicts with
loading bay access. Arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the appropriate
public utility companies for pole relocation are required, if the
loading bay cannot be relocated.
Green Infrastructure
31. Submission requirements for development permit stage must
include the following elements:
(i) Pre-development site plan showing orthophoto and
existing drainage areas and appurtenances;
(ii) A proposed site plan that delineates drainage areas,
including the area measurements for pervious/impervious
areas, and identifies appropriately sized green
infrastructure practices for each of those areas;
(iii) Geotechnical study that evaluates the potential and risks
for onsite rainwater infiltration.
a. Infiltration testing at likely locations for infiltration
practices and a proposed design infiltration rate;
b. Soil stratigraphy;
c. Depth to bedrock and seasonally high groundwater;
and
d. Assessment of infiltration risks such as slope
stability and soil contamination.
(iv) Hydrologic and hydraulic analysis prepared by a qualified
professional in the area of rainwater management showing
how the site will meet the requirements of the Policy;
(v) If lower tier green infrastructure options are chosen, then
justifications must be included in the RMP report;
(vi) Details on how the targets set out above will be achieved
through the development phases and once all
development phases are complete;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 15
(vii) Include supplementary documentation for any proprietary
products that clearly demonstrates how they contribute to
the targets;
(viii) The plan and report must demonstrate that access has
been provided for maintaining the rainwater management
system, such as providing truck access for pumping out
sediment traps; and
(ix) Maintenance and operation guide for the rainwater
management system that will be provided to the eventual
owner or party responsible for maintenance.
Note to Applicant: The building/public realm should be designed to
show leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building
systems including an integrative approach to rainwater
management to minimize potable water use and encourage the
use of alternative water sources in areas such as toilet flushing
and irrigation.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 1 to 7, All Except the West 7 Feet and the
East 10 Feet Now Highways, of Lot 15, Block B, District Lots 319,
323 and 324, Plan 1685 to create a single parcel.
2. Subdivision of the consolidated site to result in the dedication of a
wedge-shaped portion of the site for road purposes from a point
measured from the northwest corner of the site a distance of
1.72 m along the north property line to a point measured from the
northwest corner a distance of 45.666 m along the west property
line.
3. Provision of a Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) for public
pedestrian/cyclist use over the north 3 m of the site. The SRW is
to be free of any encumbrance such as structure, stairs,
door-swings and benches at-grade but the SRW agreement will
accommodate underground parking Levels P1 and P2 and
portions of the building at the second floor and above within the
SRW area.
4. Provision of a Statutory Right of Way for public pedestrian use of
an expanded sidewalk over the area of the site adjacent to the
west property line to give an overall distance of 5.0 metres

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 16
(16.4 ft.) from the back of the future City curb. The SRW is to be
free of any encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door-swings
and benches at-grade.
Note to Applicant: Plans show significant encroachments in this
SRW, including the second row of street trees which should be
included on private property outside of the SRW as per the
Marpole Community Plan.
5. Provision of a 3.66 m (12 ft.) wide SRW for public pedestrian use
on the south portion of the site for a mid-block pedestrian
connection to the lane.
Note to Applicant: An additional 3.66 m (12 ft.) SRW will be sought
from the adjacent site to provide for a total width of 7.32 m (24 ft.)
as per the Marpole Community Plan.
6. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights-of-way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. Based on an estimate of the
development’s water demands, the water system should
be adequate to service the development. No upgrades
currently noted. Supply project details including confirmed
fire flow calculations based on the Fire Underwriter’s
Survey’s document, Water Supply for Public Fire
Protection, average day domestic water demands, and
peak hour domestic water demands (sealed by a qualified
Engineer) to confirm that water system upgrades are not
required. Should review of the confirmed project details
deem upgrading be necessary then arrangements to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services will be required
to secure payment for the upgrading. The developer is
responsible for 100% of any water system upgrading that
may be required.
Note to Applicant: The above analysis assumes the
proposed building will not utilize wood-frame construction.
Should the developer choose wood-frame construction, the
water analysis completed above may not be valid.
(ii) A fire hydrant fronting the development is required to be
installed and the developer is responsible for 100% of the
cost.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 17
(iii) Upgrade approximately 167 m of existing combined sewer
to 200 mm sanitary sewer main and 750 mm storm sewer
on Oak Street from manhole south of 64th Avenue to
67th Avenue. If service connection from site is further north
than manhole south of 64th Avenue on Oak Street, sewers
to be separated to upstream manhole.
(iv) Upgrade approximately 102 m of existing combined sewer
to 1050 mm storm sewer main and sanitary main on 67th
Avenue from Oak Street to Shaughnessy Street. The
lengths and diameters of these improvements are
approximate and subject to detailed design by Developer’s
Engineer.
(v) Separate 102 m of 450 mm COMB to 1050 mm STM and
250 mm SAN on 67th Avenue from Oak Street to
Shaughnessy Street.
Note to Applicant: The lengths and diameters of these
improvements are approximate and subject to detailed
design by Developer’s Engineer.
Note to Applicant: The sewer upgrading costs borne by this
project may be reduced should benefitting nearby
development proceed concurrently with this project with
the said reduction to be determined at the sole discretion
of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The 10-year post-development flow rate
discharged to the sewer shall be no greater than the 10-
year pre-development flow rate. The pre-development
estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF curves, whereas the
post-development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF
curves to account for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Developer’s Engineer to submit design
brief, calculations and/or model, and design drawings to
the City. Submittals to be reviewed and accepted by City
Engineer.
Note to Applicant: Developer to submit a groundwater
management plan to be reviewed and accepted by City
Engineer. The plan shall include confirmation that no
groundwater will be discharged to the sewer system.
Note to Applicant: Development to be serviced to the future
750 mm STM and 200 mm SAN sewers on Oak Street.
(vi) Provision of a groundwater management plan to be
reviewed and accepted by City Engineer. The plan shall
include confirmation that no groundwater will be
discharged to the sewer system.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 18
(vii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(viii) Provision of a new traffic signal at the intersection of
64th Avenue and Oak Street.
(ix) Provision of street reconstruction on 64th Avenue adjacent
to the site to generally include the following: new curb and
gutter, a 2.5 m wide raised protected bike lane, a minimum
1.83 m (6 ft.) wide CIP light broom finish concrete sidewalk
with saw cut joints, curb ramps and adjustments to all
existing infrastructure to accommodate the proposed street
improvements.
(x) Provision of a 2.44 m (8 ft.) CIP light broom finish sidewalk
with saw cut joints and a minimum of 1.83 m (6 ft.) wide
sod grass front boulevard on Oak Street.
(xi) Provision of a standard lane crossing including
replacement of the curb returns on both sides of the lane
and upgrading of the curb ramps to meet current
standards.
(xii) Provision of a new 1.53 m (5 ft.) light broom finish saw cut
concrete sidewalk on the south property line of the site at
the mid-block connection linking the sidewalk on Oak
Street to the lane. The remaining 7 ft. of the SRW is
intended for public realm amenities including benches,
landscape and pedestrian lighting.
(xiii) Provision of speed humps in the lane from 64th to
67th Avenues.
(xiv) Provision of new curb ramps at the intersection of
Oak Street and 64th Avenue
(xv) Provision of upgraded street lighting on 64th Avenue and
Oak Street and pedestrian lighting on the new mid-block
pedestrian connection to current standards including a
review of the existing street lighting to determine its
adequacy and a lighting design as required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 19
(xvi) Provision of lane lighting on standalone poles with
underground ducts.
7. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but are not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Green Infrastructure
8. Provision of a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details
how the rainwater management system meets the Citywide
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP) requirements for
retention, cleaning and safe conveyance, prepared by a subject
matter expert (Engineer), subject to review, which will address the
following:
(i) Runoff from the first 24 mm of rainfall from all areas,
including rooftops, paved areas, and landscape must be
retained and treated on site (landscapers over native
subsoils with appropriately sized topsoil meets the 24 mm
retention requirement).
(ii) Staff will not accept the principle that distinct site areas that
have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way
compensate for those areas of the site that are impervious,
without the first and second 24 mm of runoff from the
impervious areas being directed towards these absorbent
areas, and this being clearly demonstrated.
a. Where areas of growing medium do not have runoff
directed on to them from adjacent impervious
surfaces they shall be assumed to be
receiving/treating/storing only the rainfall that falls
directly on them.
b. IRMP targets to be achieved on site, i.e. without
using street right-of-way.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 20
(iii) The applicant must prioritize methods of retention
according to the three tiers below. Justification must be
provided for using a lower tier retention option. The tiers
are as follows:
a. 1st tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Rainwater harvesting for reuse, green roofs, and
infiltration.
b. 2nd tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Retention within non-infiltrating landscapes,
including absorbent landscape on slab, closed
bottom planter boxes, and lined bioretention
systems.
c. 3rd tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Detention storage with treatment and slow release.
(iv) Surfaces designed for motor vehicle use and other high
pollutant generating surfaces require an additional 24 mm
of treatment beyond the first 24 mm retained (for a total of
48 mm treated).
(v) Water quality volume (24 mm for low pollutant generating
surfaces like roofs and 48 mm for high pollutant generating
surfaces like driveways) that leaves the site must be
treated to a standard of 80%. TSS removal by mass by
using either individual BMPs that meet the standard or
treatment trains of BMPs that, when combined, meet the
standard. For proprietary treatment devices:
a. Provide product information for all treatment
practices.
b. Products need to be certified by TAPE (The
Technology Assessment Protocol – Ecology
Program), Washington State Department of
Ecology’s process for evaluating and approving
emerging rainwater treatment BMPs. The applicant
may propose other technologies but must provide
supporting information that shows the technology
meets the standard.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will enter into such legal
agreements with the City, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services, to ensure on-going operations of certain
stormwater storage, rainwater management and green
infrastructure systems.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 21
Sustainability
9. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Environmental Contamination
10. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services, and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been issued to the City.
Public Art
11. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager
Note to Applicant: Please contact Eric Fredericksen, Head of
Public Art, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 22
Community Amenity Contribution
12. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $4,843,093,
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be made
prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services. The $4,843,093 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $2,421,546 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Marpole area;
(ii) $2,179,392 (45%) toward childcare and community
facilities in and around the Marpole area;
(iii) $242,155 (5%) to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to
enable heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the city.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate city official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 988 West 64th Avenue and
8030-8130 Oak Street”.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 23
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03163)
4. REZONING: 4175 West 29th Avenue (St. George’s Senior School)
An application by Perkins and Will was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 4175 West 29th Avenue (St. George’s Senior School) from RS-5
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District
to permit the redevelopment of the St. George’s Senior School campus,
increase the height from 10.7 m (35 feet) to 18.9 metres (62 feet), allow for
staff and student housing, and introduce a maximum student enrolment.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 16 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 5 pieces of correspondence and 2 petitions (62 and 94 signatures) in opposition to the
application; and
• 2 pieces of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.
Applicant Comments
Tom Matthews, Headmaster, St. George’s School, provided opening comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application and to the benefits of the expansion:
Airlie Ogilvie, Past President, Vancouver Point Grey Alumni of the Sacred Heart
Karen Grant
Kyle Grant
Anthea Hewett
Benjamin Steven
John Clancy

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 24
The following spoke in opposition to the application. Concerns expressed included increased
traffic, loss of quiet enjoyment and proposed building heights:
Vicki Pasquill
Rui Ling Liu
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:10 pm.
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT discussion and decision on the application “REZONING: 4175 West 29th Avenue
(St. George’s Senior School)”, be referred to the Regular Council meeting on
July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03165)
* * * * *
At 9:12 pm, Councillor De Genova declared Conflict of Interest on Item 5 as she has previously
worked with the Applicant to provide non-profit housing in another municipality. She left the
Council Chamber and did not return.
* * * * *
5. TEXT AMENDMENT: 2133 Nanton Avenue and 4189 Yew Street (Arbutus Centre)
An application by Arbutus Village Holdings Ltd. (Larco Investments) was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (642) (Comprehensive Development) District for 2133 Nanton
Avenue and 4189 Yew Street (Arbutus Centre) to increase the allowable floor
area by 8,016 sq. m (86,283 sq. ft.) to a site-wide maximum of 75,081 sq. m
(808,165 sq. ft.) for all uses combined, with a maximum of 65,016 sq. m
(699,826 sq. ft.) for residential uses and a minimum of 10,065 sq. m (108,338
sq. ft.) of non-dwelling uses; and to increase the maximum building height from
57 m (187 ft.) to 60 m (197 ft.) geodetic datum for Block C and from 57 m (187
ft.) to 72 m (236 ft.) geodetic datum for Block D.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 7 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 58 pieces of correspondence and 3 petitions (32, 93 and 94 signatures) in opposition to
the application; and
• 2 pieces of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 25
Staff Opening Comments
John Chapman, Rezoning Planner, Rezoning Centre, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, presented the application.
Applicant Comments
Wendy LeBreton, Larco Investments, provided opening comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application and raised concerns regarding the changes
to the initial plan presented at consultation, including increased height, lack of social housing
and traffic congestion:
Dorothy Dolphin
Octavian Cadabeschi
Katherine Reichert, ARKS, Housing Chair
Tom Hughes, Arbutus Village, Strata President
Michael Bentley
Heiko van Eijnsbergen
David Hendry, Vancouver Tenants Union, Outreach and Advocacy Team
Kari Reichwald
Claire Cavanough
* * * * *
At 9:59 pm, during the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
* * * * *
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:12 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 18, 2018 26
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT discussion and decision on the application “TEXT AMENDMENT: 2133 Nanton
Avenue and 4189 Yew Street (Arbutus Centre)”, be referred to the Regular Council
meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03166)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
(Councillor Jang absent for the Vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova and Jang absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:15 pm.
* * * * *