PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 17, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 17, 2018, at 6:10 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
ABSENT: Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Leave of Absence)
Councillor Tim Stevenson (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign and
Heritage By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Miscellaneous Amendments - Zoning and Development
By-law, Various CD-1 By-laws, and Noise Control, Parking and Sign By-laws
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make amendments to CD-1 (696) By-law for 500-650 West 57th Avenue
(Pearson Dogwood), CD-1 (693) By-law for 809 West 23rd Avenue, CD-1
(679) By-law for 725-747 Southeast Marine Drive, and CD-1 (562) By-law for
508 Helmcken Street; to repeal superseded CD-1 (21) and CD-1 (598)
By-laws; to amend various CD-1 By-laws to include ‘Grocery Store with Liquor
Store’ use; and to amend the Sign, Noise Control, and Parking By-laws. The
amendments would achieve the intent of the initial rezoning approvals and
correct inadvertent errors.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the
speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:15 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council approve the following applications to:
(i) amend CD-1 (696) By-law No. 12105 for 500-650 West 57th Avenue (Pearson
Dogwood) for a minor text amendment to clarify health care office as a permitted
use and simplify the table listing maximum permitted heights, generally as
presented in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments - Zoning and Development By-law, Various CD-1
By-laws, and Noise Control, Parking and Sign By-laws”;
(ii) amend CD-1 (693) By-law No. 12034 for 809 West 23rd Avenue for a minor text
amendment to include Multiple Conversion and Infill Dwelling uses, generally as
presented in Appendix C of the above-noted Policy Report;
(iii) repeal superseded CD-1 (21) By-law No. 4035 for 725-747 Southeast Marine
Drive, CD-1 (598) By-law No. 11192 for 508 Helmcken Street, and Amending
Sign By-law No. 11193 for 508 Helmcken Street;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 3
(iv) amend CD-1 (679) By-law No. 11930 for 725-747 Southeast Marine Drive for a
minor text amendment to add Child Day Care Facility and Community Centre or
Neighbourhood House as uses excluded from FSR calculations, generally as
presented in Appendix D of the above-noted Policy Report;
(v) amend CD-1 (562) By-law No. 10870 for 508 Helmcken Street to correct the
CD-1 area generally as presented in Appendix E of the above-noted Policy
Report;
(vi) amend CD-1 (659), CD-1 (672), CD-1 (677), and CD-1 (682) to include “Grocery
Store with Liquor Store” use as per recent updates to all CD-1 Districts with
Grocery Store with Drug Store use, general as presented in Appendix F of the
above-noted Policy Report; and
(vii) amend the Sign By-law, Noise Control By-law, Parking By-law, to correct
inadvertent CD-1 numbering errors, generally as presented in Appendices G, H
and I of the above-noted Policy Report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03152)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: Development and Building Regulatory Review - Minor
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law, the Downtown Official
Development Plan, and Various Land Use and Development Policies and
Guidelines
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: The Development and Building Regulatory Review is a major review of the
City’s land use regulations and policies and has been identified as a corporate
priority to improve service delivery. As part of the initial phase of work, various
amendments are proposed to the Zoning and Development By-law, the
Downtown Official Development Plan, and various land use and development
guidelines and policies to simplify and update the regulations and streamline
permit review processes.
Council also had before it a memo dated July 9, 2018, from the Assistant Director of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability, to advise that one of the items contained in the original
application had been removed. Specifically, the memo noted that as the CD-1 By-law enactment
has not been considered by Council, the miscellaneous amendments originally proposed in the
application will be rescheduled for another Public Hearing once the CD-1 By-law is enacted.
The memo also noted these amendments had been removed from the Summary and
Recommendation contained in the Public Hearing agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 4
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 30 letters in support of the application;
• 16 letters opposed to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to questions received at
referral.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Council heard from eight speakers in support of the application, some of whom noted concerns
with the condition for the second front door to be at or above grade:
Karen Sawatzky, Chair, Renters Advisory Committee
Jens von Bergman
Bryn Davidson
Stuart Smith
Graham Cook
Jennifer Bradshaw
Rhi Myfanwy Kirkland
Karen Ward
The following spoke in opposition to the application noting concerns with process and that minor
changes should be looked at as one part of the bigger process:
Larry Benge, Coalition of Vancouver Neighbourhoods
Barbara May, Director, Upper Kitsilano Residential Association
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:01 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff summarized the application and responded to
concerns raised by the speakers and questions from Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 5
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
June 1, 2018, entitled “Development and Building Regulatory Review - Minor
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law, the Downtown Official
Development Plan, and Various Land Use and Development Policies and
Guidelines”, to amend:
(i) the intent statements for the RS District Schedules to better reflect the
form of development in those districts;
(ii) Section 4.17 in the RS-1, RS-3, RS-3A, RS-5, RS-6 and RS-7 District
Schedules to allow more than one front door;
(iii) Section 4.4.1 (d) in the RS-1 District Schedule and 4.4.3 in the RS-3 and
RS-3A Districts Schedule to allow covered porches to extend further into
the front yard;
(iv) Section 11.19 to remove occupancy limits for a Residential Unit
Associated with an Artist Studio;
(v) Section 2.2.A of the FC-2, I-1, I-1A, I-1B, I-2, I-3, I-4, IC-1, IC-2, IC-3, M-
1, M-1B and M-2 District Schedules to exclude Artist Studio from the
requirement for a wall separating accessory retail from all other uses;
(vi) references to the Director of Planning and Development Permit Board,
throughout the by-law, to clarify authority and improve consistency of
language; and
(vii) an incorrect reference in Section 4.5.3 of the RS-4 District Schedule.
B. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Downtown Official
Development Plan generally as presented in Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated June 1, 2018, entitled “Development and Building Regulatory Review -
Minor Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law, the Downtown
Official Development Plan, and Various Land Use and Development Policies and
Guidelines”, to amend Section 3.9 to reduce the number of reviews required by
City Council for development permit applications seeking an increase in floor
area when a heritage building is being conserved.
C. THAT Council amend various land use and development guidelines and policies
to correct inconsistences and minor reference errors and repeal several outdated
or superseded policies and guidelines, generally in accordance with Appendix C
of the Policy Report dated June 1, 2018, entitled “Development and Building
Regulatory Review - Minor Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 6
the Downtown Official Development Plan, and Various Land Use and
Development Policies and Guidelines”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03153)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
3. TEXT AMENDMENT: 605-695 Southeast Marine Drive
An application by Serracan Properties Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District (99) to add ‘Liquor
Store’ as a conditional use to enable the temporary relocation of an existing
liquor during redevelopment.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence had been received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of
the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:40 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Serracan Properties Ltd. on behalf of Fraser Marine
Drive Holdings Inc., the registered owner, to amend the text of CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District (99) By-law No. 4238 and No. 4860 for
605-695 Southeast Marine Drive [Lot B of Lot L, Block 30, District Lot 313 Plan
12285; PID: 007-037-201; and Lot G of Lot E, Block 31, District Lot 313 Plan
9905; PID 007-037-171] to add ‘Liquor Store’ as an allowable use to enable the
temporary relocation of an existing liquor store, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 605-695 Southeast Marine Drive”, be approved.
B. THAT A be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 7
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 3155)
4. REZONING: 5809-5811 Main Street (198 Ontario Place)
An application by Marianne Amodio Architecture Studio was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 5809-5811 Main Street (198 Ontario Place) from RT-2 (Two-Family
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the
development of a 3½-storey residential building with 12 co-housing units
including three affordable home ownership units. A height of 14.1 metres (46
feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 1.62 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence had been received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of
the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
The following correspondence had been received since referral to Public hearing and prior to
the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 40 letters in support of the application;
• One letter opposed to the application;
• One letter on other matters related to the applciation.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to questions received at
referral.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 8
Applicant Comments
Mark Shieh, Tomo Spaces, and Marianne Amodio, Marianne Amodio Architecture Studio,
presented the application.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application:
Council heard from 11 speakers in support of the application:
James Chamberlain, Our Urban Village Cohousing
Charles Montgomery, Principal, Happy City
Cherie Lang
Omar Dominguez
Jens von Bergmann
Kathy McGrenera, Quayside Village Cohousing
Rebecca Chaster, It Takes a Village Cohousing
Bryn Davidson
Stuart Smith
Michael Koo
Barry Truter
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:25 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Marianne Amodio Architecture Studio, on behalf of
Tomo Spaces Inc., the registered owner, to rezone 5809-5811 Main Street (198
Ontario Place) [Lots 1 and 2, Except (A) the West 8 Feet Now Lane and (B) Part
in Plan 4457, both of Lot 2, Block C, District Lot 643, Plan 2175; PIDs: 013-987-
038 and 013-987-046, respectively] from RT-2 (Two-Family Dwelling) to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR)
from 0.75 to 1.62 and the building height from 9.2 m (30 ft.) to 14.1 m (46 ft.) to
permit the development of a 3½-storey residential building with 12 co-housing
units, including three affordable homeownership units, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
5809-5811 Main Street (198 Ontario Place)” be approved subject to the following
conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 9
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by Marianne Amodio Architecture Studio and received
November 9, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning, who
shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the livability of the units with basement
bedrooms by considering solutions such as raising the basement floor
level, adding light wells, increasing windows or reconfiguring the
relationship between bedrooms and exterior circulation paths.
Note to Applicant: The basement floor level being closer to surrounding
grade would improve natural lighting into the basement. It is anticipated
that the overall height will increase as a result. However, the primary
roof’s eaves-line should remain at the same level and the roof-ridge to not
increase more than 1 ft. This is to contain most of the building within the
primary roof to maintain its two and a half storeys with basement
expression. Adjusting some ceiling heights may be necessary to not
increase the overall building height. Care should be taken in arranging the
extra steps needed for these raised levels.
2. Design development to maintain and improve the common amenity
room’s usability and flexibility by:
(i) Introducing provisions to allow for partitioning of the amenity
space.
(ii) Ensure that the area of the common amenity room is no less than
102 sq. m (1,100 sq. ft.)
Note to Applicant: This shared common room is intended to be a flexible
space for multiple uses primarily by the building’s residents, with the
possibility of supporting external events.
3. Design development to ensure all fenestration locations and sizes will
meet Passive House standards.
4. Consideration to improve the shared courtyard’s usability by using the
parking stalls closest to it as temporary extensions of the courtyard.
Programmatically, consider how the pathways and parking stalls
surrounding the courtyard are extensions of it rather than elements that
restrict it.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 10
5. Consideration to extend the lift to the basement level for better access, in
conjunction with the bike-track, to the bicycle storage.
6. The proposed unit mix, including 3 studio units (25%), 2 one-bedroom
units (17%), 4 two-bedroom units (33%), and 3 three-bedroom units
(25%), is to be included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director of
Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not go lower
than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be suitable for families with
children.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design
7. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regard for the following:
(i) Residential break and enter;
(ii) Mail theft; and
(iii) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
8. Provision of adequate soil volumes in planters to support long-term health
of plants and trees.
Note to Applicant: Soil depths should meet or exceed BCLNA landscape
standards.
9. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross-sections
(minimum 1/4" scale) through common open spaces, semi-private patio
areas and planters.
Note to Applicant: In tree areas, the sections should illustrate the slab
design and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy, and any
associated landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas, illustrate
and dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside dimension), soil,
root ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and portions of the adjacent
building, such as residential units or amenity rooms.
10. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1’ scale minimum. The
plant list should include the common and botanical name, size and
quantity of all existing/proposed plant material. Plant material should be
clearly illustrated on the plan and keyed to the plant list. The Landscape
Plan should include the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all
existing or proposed street trees, adjoining walkways, surface materials,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 11
PMT/Vista transformers and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro
poles, and fire hydrants.
11. Consideration to employ landscape grading solutions that direct rainwater
to absorbent soils.
Note to Applicant: This condition is to assist with infiltration and treatment
in keeping with emerging rainwater management policies.
12. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site, where
applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees are to be shown on the development
permit plans and confirmed prior to issuance of the building permit.
Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering Streets Division
regarding street tree spacing and quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604-
257-8587) of Park Board regarding tree species and planting
requirements. Include a notation on the plan as follows: “Final spacing,
quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services. New trees must be of good standard, minimum
6 cm caliper, and installed with approved root barriers, tree guards and
appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8 ft. long and 18 in. in depth.
Planting depth of root ball must be below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board
for inspection after tree planting completion.”.
13. Provision of high-efficiency irrigation for the site and hose bibs for
commons areas.
Note to Applicant: A portion of the landscape plantings are at grade in
continuous soil volumes with access to the water table. It is to the
discretion of the landscape architect to specify irrigation only in those
areas susceptible to heat stress and drought. Hose bibs are requested to
encourage gardening on amenity decks.
Sustainability
14. All buildings in the development shall meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended to February 7, 2017), including
all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House
certified or alternate near zero emissions standard approved by the
Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate the
development is on track to achieve the above requirements at each stage
of permit. For more detail on the above requirements and what must be
submitted at each stage, refer to the most recent Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017 or
later) bulletin.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 12
Engineering
15. The minimum off-street parking provided on-site may be relaxed due to
site constraints with the provision of additional bicycle parking or other
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) strategies to support
alternative transportation.
16. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire
the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize
street use during excavation and construction (i.e. consideration to the
building design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from)
and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
17. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: “This plan is
“NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public property
may begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering, Development
Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details”.
18. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any
portion of the service connection above grade within the road
right-of-way.
19. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual
section 02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access
around existing and future utilities adjacent your site. Current construction
practices regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at
risk during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems.
Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the
building permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of
written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
20. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show containers and
toters on plans for recycling and garbage needs and refer to the
Engineering Garbage and Storage Facility Design Supplement for
recommended dimensions and quantities of bins.
Note to Applicant: Pick-up operations should not rely on bins being stored
on the street or lane for pick-up. Bins are to be returned to storage areas
immediately after emptying.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 13
21. The following are required as part of the dedication along Main Street.
(i) Delete proposed bench and raised planter shown on beyond the
dedication line on Main Street.
(ii) Delete portion of southerly fence that extends beyond the
dedication line.
(iii) Delete brick pavers shown over the property line on both street
frontages and show broom finish standard concrete sidewalks.
(iv) Delete references to “stoop with planters by residents”.
(v) Provision of an updated landscape plan with the property line and
the required dedication on Main Street dimensioned and labelled.
22. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over public
property.
Note to Applicant: Canopies are to be fully demountable and drained to
the building’s internal drainage systems and should consider the final
sidewalk location and widths such that the drip line is achieving maximum
and continuous weather protection for the sidewalk users.
23. Compliance of the Parking and Loading Design Supplement and Bicycle
Parking Design Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services as follows:
(i) Drawing design elevations within the parking area to calculate the
slope and crossfall. The slope and crossfall must not exceed 5%.
(ii) Number and dimension all parking spaces.
(iii) If columns are required within the parking area, column placement
must comply with the requirements of the Engineering Parking
and Loading Design Supplement. Dimension any column
encroachments into parking stalls.
(iv) Section drawings showing elevations and minimum vertical
clearances for the parking level and security gates. These
clearances must consider mechanical projections and built
obstructions.
(v) Posts are shown along the property line on the landscape plan for
the two parking spaces at the south end of the site. Confirm posts
shown do not restrict maneuvering, parking access, and vertical
clearance or delete from plans.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 14
(vi) Provision of ‘stairs free’ access for the Class A bicycle spaces
located in the basement. The bicycle access shown with a wheel
ramp is not supported. Providing an elevator stop in the basement
level with an appropriately-sized elevator would achieve this.
(vii) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle storage rooms and note on plans.
(viii) Provision of an improved plan showing the ‘stairs free’ access
route from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
(ix) Consider providing a 4 ft. or wider access aisle for the cargo bike
parking shown. As these bikes are longer, a wider access aisle
may be required than what is shown.
Housing
24. The building is to comply with the High-Density Housing for Families with
Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity room with kitchenette and
accessible washroom.
Note to Applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas should be adjacent
to one another and have direct visual and physical connection between them
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole
cost and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 1 and 2, Both Except (A) of the West 8 Feet Now
Lane and (B) Part in Plan 4457, of Lot 2, Block C, DL 643, Plan 2175 to
create a single parcel and subdivision of that site to result in the
dedication for road purposes of that portion of the site east of a line
formed between a point measured 6.2 ft. along the north property line of
Lot 1 from the easterly property line and a point measured 2.5 ft. along
the south property line of Lot 5 (5837 Main Street) from the eastern
property line.
Note to Applicant: A subdivision plan and application to the Subdivision
and Strata Group is required. For general information, see the subdivision
website at: http://vancouver.ca/home-property-development/apply-to-
subdivide-or-join-properties.aspx

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 15
2. Clarify if any portion of the roof is over the dedication area. Note that the
easterly extent of the roof in the plan view differs from that shown in the
elevations (where the easterly portion wall extends above the roof line).
Delete any portions encroaching over the dedication area.
3. Clarify if any windows are boxed-out (as shown on the elevations A2.01
and A2.03) and encroach over the dedication area on Main Street. Note
that projecting window frames are not indicated in the plan views. Delete
any window projections over the dedication area.
4. Clarify if any bricks projecting proud of the easterly façade are to
encroach over the dedication area (A2.01, A2.03). Delete any
encroaching bricks.
5. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street
dedications and rights-of-way for the services are provided. No
development permit for the site will be issued until the security for the
services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow demands
of the project. Based on an estimate of the development’s water
demands, the water system should be adequate to service the
development. No upgrades currently noted.
a. Supply the project details including confirmed fire flow
calculations based on the Fire Underwriter’s Survey’s
document, Water Supply for Public Fire Protection,
average day domestic water demands, and peak hour
domestic water demands (sealed by a qualified Engineer)
to confirm that water system upgrades are not required.
b. Should review of the confirmed project details deem
upgrading to be necessary then arrangements to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services will be required
to secure payment for the upgrading. The developer is
responsible for 100% of any water system upgrading that
may be required.
Note to Applicant: The above analysis assumes the proposed
building will not utilize wood-frame construction. Should the
developer choose wood-frame construction, the water analysis
completed above may not be valid.
(ii) Separate and upgrade the sewers on the lane west of Main Street,
from Ontario Place to East 42nd Avenue.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 16
Note to Applicant: Based on preliminary calculations future STM
will be 450 mm and SAN will be 250 mm. Design in this lane will
require consolidation of the two existing combined sewers.
(iii) Provision of countdown timers and LED lighting at the signalized
intersection of Ontario Street and 41st Avenue.
(iv) Provision of a 1.53 m (5 ft.) sod grass front boulevard with trees
and a 3.05 m (10 ft.) light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk
on Main Street frontage. Landscaping with shrubs, ground cover
or hard surface is acceptable in the remaining portion of the
dedication.
(v) Provision of a 1.83 m (6 ft.) light broom finish saw cut concrete
sidewalk on Ontario Place and maintain the existing grass front
boulevard.
Note to Applicant: Label the grass area in the front boulevard
along Ontario Place on the landscape plan.
(vi) Removal of the existing driveway crossing on Ontario Place and
provision of new curb and gutter.
(vii) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing including
replacement of the curb returns on both sides of the lane and
upgrading of the curb ramps to meet current standards.
(viii) Provision of new curb ramps at the southwest corner of the
intersection on Main Street and Ontario Place as per City
standard.
(ix) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to current
standards including a review of the existing lighting to determine
its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(x) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are
to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City
needs in a configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services and in conformance with applicable
electrical codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be required
that includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
6. Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure the
provision, operation and maintenance of one Shared Vehicle and the
provision and maintenance of one Shared Vehicle Parking Space for use

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 17
exclusively by such Shared Vehicle, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services, including the following:
(i) Provide one Shared Vehicle to the development for a minimum
period of three years;
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle Organization
satisfactory to the General Manager of Engineering Services to
secure the operation and maintenance of the Shared Vehicle;
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space for use
exclusively by such Shared Vehicle;
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared Vehicle
Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking Space;
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for $50,000 per
Shared Vehicle;
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the title to
the development, with such priority as the Director of Legal
Services may require and including a covenant under section 219
of the Land Title Act of British Columbia, a statutory right-of-way
(SRW), or other instrument satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services, securing these conditions; and
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a car share company
indicating their willingness to supply car share vehicles on the site
at building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Shared vehicle spaces are required to be a minimum
width of 2.9 m.
7. Provision of all utility services is to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be
primary with all electrical plant, which include but are not limited to
System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and
kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private
property with no reliance on public property for placement of these
features. In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from
the existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with BC Hydro
that an area has been defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has
been allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 18
Housing
8. Make arrangements to the sole discretion and satisfaction of the Director
of Planning to secure either of the following enhancements to the
affordability of three units in the development by either:
(i) Entering into a Housing Agreement and Section 219 Covenant
with the City or a Section 219 Covenant with BC Housing to
secure 1 one-bedroom unit, 1 two-bedroom unit and 1 three-
bedroom unit as below market affordable homeownership units
where the units will only be sold for approximately 35% below
market value to income tested buyers with a secure mechanism
for maintaining that level of affordability over time; or
(ii) Entering into a Housing Agreement and Section 219 Covenant as
set out in condition 10 below to secure two or three moderate
income rental units for 60 years or the life of the building.
9. Provide a letter of intent, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services, between the applicant and a
co-housing partner group affirming and securing the option to purchase
units for members of the co-housing group.
Note to Applicant: The occupancy permit for the application may be held
until the applicant has verified that sales have been completed to a
co-housing group, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and such permit hold may be secured
by a Section 219 Covenant.
10. In the case of option (c.)8.(ii), make arrangements to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services (or
successor in function) and the Director of Legal Services to enter into a
Housing Agreement and Section 219 Covenant securing the rent
restricted units as For-Profit Affordable Rental Housing pursuant to
Section 3.1A of the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law for the
longer of 60 years or life of the building, and subject to the following
additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one month at a
time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial monthly
rents for each rental unit, when the Housing Agreement is entered
into and again prior to Development Permit issuance;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 19
(v) That the average starting monthly rents for each unit type will be
at or below the following rates, applicable at the time of initial
occupancy:
• Studio $950
• 1 Bedroom $1,200
• 2 Bedroom $1,600
• 3 Bedroom $2,000
as set out in section 2a of the Moderate Income Rental Housing
Pilot Program and rent increases will be capped at the Residential
Tenancy Act maximum annual allowable increase, as published
by the Province of British Columbia, regardless of a change in
occupancy.
Note to Applicant: A rent roll indicating the agreed maximum
average initial monthly rents for the units secured at moderate
income rates will be required prior to Development Permit
issuance, and again prior to issuance of an Occupancy Permit, to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services (or successor in function) and the Director of
Legal Services.
(vi) The applicant will verify eligibility of new tenants for the units
secured at moderate income rates.
a. For new tenants, annual household income cannot
exceed 4 times the annual rent for the unit (i.e. at least
25% of household income is spent on rent).
b. There should be at least one occupant per bedroom in
each moderate income unit.
(vii) The applicant will verify the ongoing eligibility of existing tenants in
the units secured at moderate income rates every 5 years after
initial occupancy.
a. For such tenants, annual household income cannot
exceed 5 times the annual rent for the unit (i.e. at least
20% of income is spent on rent).
b. There should be at least one occupant per bedroom in
each moderate income unit.
(viii) On an annual basis, or at the request of the City, the applicant will
report to the City of Vancouver on the operation of the Moderate
Income Rental Housing Unit which will ensure that the City can
confirm that the units are being operated as agreed, and will
include a rent roll for the moderate income units, and a summary
of the results of eligibility testing for all units.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 20
(ix) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted
pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter and a
Covenant under Section 219 of the Land Title Act prior to
enactment of the rezoning by-law.
Environmental Contamination
11. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services (Environmental
Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a
remediation agreement for the remediation of the site and any
contaminants satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental
Services, the General Manager of Engineering Services and
Director of Legal Services, including a Section 219 covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or improvements on
this site constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the on-site
and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of Environment,
have been issued to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the
property owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over other such liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject site as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and
otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment
of the By-law and at no cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 21
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B, of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 5809-5811 Main Street (198 Ontario Place)”, the
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment after the Housing Agreement has been agreed
to and signed by the property owner(s) and their mortgagee(s) prior to enactment
of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by this report.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of when
they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03156)
5. REZONING: 146-186 West 41st Avenue and 5726 Columbia Street
An application by Bogner Bromley Homes Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 146-186 West 41st Avenue and 5726 Columbia Street from RS-1
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District
to permit a townhouse development that includes two four-storey buildings
and four two-storey buildings, containing a total of 40 market residential units.
A maximum height of 15.1 metres (49.4 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of
1.88 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence had been received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of
the speakers list and receipt of public comments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 22
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:02 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Bogner Bromley Homes Ltd., on behalf of 1060937 B.C.
Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 146-186 West 41st Avenue and 5726
Columbia Street [Lots A through F and Amended Lot G (See 330115L), all of
Block 1023, District Lot 526, Plan 8085; PIDs 010-254-633, 010-254-641, 010-
254-650, 008-755-914, 010-254-668, 010254-684 and 010-255-052 respectively]
from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 1.88 and the height
from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 15.1 m (49.4 ft.) to permit a townhouse development that
includes two four-storey buildings and four two-storey buildings, containing a total
of 40 market residential units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated May 1, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 146-186 West 41st Avenue
and 5726 Columbia Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions.
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by Raymond Letkeman Architects Inc. and received
September 11, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning, who
shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to provide the following minimum setbacks:
(i) front yard on 41st Avenue of 12 ft.,
(ii) flanking yard on Columbia Street of 12 ft.,
(iii) side yard on the east of 10 ft., and
(iv) rear yard on the south of 4 ft.
Note to Applicant: Increasing the setbacks will improve the performance
and open space to minimum standards found in the Cambie Corridor Plan
and are consistent with other similar applications. Setbacks apply to the
predominant face of wall and extend full height. Minor variances in the
front and flanking street setbacks (in the range of 10-15 ft.) may be

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 23
considered for building articulation, increased outdoor open space, and
accommodation of Engineering Condition of By-law Enactment 2 for
setback and SRW along 41st Avenue.
2. Design development to provide minimum mid-block building separations
of 24 ft.
Note to Applicant: These building separations apply to Buildings 1 and 2,
and 4 and 5. The objective is to provide for a neighbourly relationship
between adjacent units, allow for access to views and daylight through
the site, and breakup large building masses. Consider flipping the
amenity room to adjoin Building 5 rather than Building 4 thus creating a
better visual link through the site. Encroachments into these building
separations between Buildings 1 and 2, as a result of an increased sewer
easement along the east property line, may be considered based on
building and open space design and provided that no dimension is less
than 20 ft. In no case will development in these separations, such as exit
stairs, be permitted and should be enclosed within the building envelope.
3. Design development to provide minimum 1.0 m at grade landscape
setback on the shared east property line.
Note to Applicant: The landscape setback should be flush with adjacent
existing grade and be clear of any above grade development.
4. Design development to improve the on-site accessibility including the
following recommended strategies:
(i) Provision of elevator access from the parkade to the courtyard
and both amenity room floor levels;
(ii) Wheelchair accessible path connecting indoor amenity, the
courtyard and Columbia Street as practical, and
(iii) Identification on the plans of any entries and units accessible to
the disabled.
Note to Applicant: Refer to handicap accessibility requirements noted in
the Building Review Branch review.
5. Consideration to improve the openness and function of the outdoor open
space and site plan including the following recommended strategies:
(i) Limiting retaining walls and other above grade development in
yards and setbacks to no greater than 1.0 m in height;
(ii) Explore opportunities in the courtyard to simplify the programming
and include nodes of open space; and
(iii) Locate garbage in the underground parkade.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 24
6. At time of development permit, provision of:
(i) Confirmation, in the drawings, of clear courtyard dimension of
24 ft.
Note to Applicant: 24 ft. is the minimum clear dimension
permissible in the Plan for the courtyard rowhouse typology.
Increases are encouraged where practical. Minor encroachments
into this dimension may be considered for improvements in
liveability, unit layout and building articulation. These
encroachments include elements such as cornices, eaves,
porches or bay windows. Balcony projections are discouraged.
(ii) Confirming dimensions on all drawings (plans, sections and
elevations) of the significant step back above level three of
between 8 and 12 ft.
(iii) Detailed section drawings with notes and dimensions including
planter and soil depths, balcony railing design, weather protection,
rooftop overhead structures and other indicative exterior details.
(iv) High quality durable materials, noted in the drawings, that
maintain the level of exterior detailing and finish necessary to
accomplish the intended expression of the building in this
application.
(v) Design to ensure that mechanical units and service equipment
including any anticipated cell antennas, mechanical screen
structures and parkade exhaust ventilation do not compromise the
integrity of the architectural expression.
(vi) The proposed unit mix of 40 three-bedroom units (100%), 29 of
which contain lock-off units, is to be included in the Development
Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes to the unit mix from the rezoning
application are at the discretion of the Director of Planning or
Development Permit Board.
(vii) Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/B021.pdf.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 25
Building Review
7. Firefighting provisions as per 3.2.5 except where otherwise approved by
Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services (VFRS).
(i) Clearly identify the locations of nearby hydrants, building fire
department connection, hose connection, and annunciator panel.
(ii) The path of travel for firefighters shall comply with Article 3.2.5.5.
(iii) The path of travel for firefighters to the four-level dwelling units
facing the courtyard may be problematic and further coordination
with Fire Department may be required. The exterior walls facing
the courtyard shall have wall assemblies protected by
noncombustible cladding.
8. The addresses shall be assigned based on the relative point of entry from
the street.
9. Building/s shall conform to Subsection 3.2.2. “Building Size and
Construction Relative to Occupancy”.
10. A standpipe system shall be installed in a building that is more than three
storeys in building height, refer to Article 3.2.5.8 of the Vancouver Building
By-law (VBBL).
11. In a building more than three storeys in building height, access through a
fire separation between a storage garage and Group C occupancy, shall
be through a vestibule conforming to Sentence 3.3.5.7.(4). The private
stairs that provide access from the underground storage garage to the
residential units above shall be provided with vestibules in accordance
with Article 3.3.5.7.(3).
12. Second means of egress must be provided for the multi-level residential
units in Building 1 and Building 2, please refer to Article 3.3.4.4.
(i) The VBBL requires a dwelling unit containing more than one
storey to be provided with an exit door or an egress door opening
directly into access to exit from the uppermost storey and from the
lowest storey of the dwelling unit.
(iii) A single exit is permitted from a dwelling unit provided the exit is
an exterior door not more than 1.5 m. above the adjacent ground,
and in a sprinklered building it is not necessary to travel up and
down more than two storeys to reach the exit door, provided the
travel distance to a single exit door does not exceed 25 m.
13. Floor assemblies within a dwelling have to be constructed as fire
separation provided the distance between the lowest floor level and the
uppermost floor level within the dwelling unit is more than 6 m. Please
refer to Sentence 3.3.4.2(3).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 26
14. The buildings are required to meet Adaptable Housing Requirements of
Subsection 3.8.5 of the VBBL.
15. The building is required to provide accessible routes for access to people
with disabilities to all common areas, storage, amenity, etc.
16. Parking stalls for persons with disabilities shall comply with Article 3.8.3.4.
of the VBBL.
17. Lock-off units shall be separated from the reminder of the building by a
fire separation with a one hour fire-resistance rating, and a sound
transmission classification (STC) of 50.
18. The buildings shall be designed and constructed to conform to ASHRAE
Standard 90.1-2010 and Building By-Law Tables 10.2.2.6 and 10.2.2.7 or
City of Vancouver Modelling Guidelines.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
19. Identify on the drawings strategies that consider the principles of CPTED
including the following conditions:
(i) Limiting unobserved access or activity and encouraging natural
visual surveillance;
(ii) Mail theft; and
(iii) Site lighting developed with considerations for safety and security.
Note to Applicant: The location of mailboxes should be shown on the site
plan and be considered based on principles for natural visual
surveillance, being well lighted and the fit with the site and building
design.
20. Design development to improve visibility and security in the underground
parking in accordance with the Parking By-law including:
(i) Overhead lighting and step lights at exit stairs and doors;
(ii) 24-hour lights and walls painted white; and
(iii) Visibility at doors, lobbies, stairs and other access routes.
Landscape Design
21. Design development to the landscape treatment to increase the volume of
soil, tree canopy cover and planting on slab, as follows:
(i) Provision of trees in planters (min. 1.25 m width) for each private
rooftop patio; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 27
(ii) Lower the slab in the courtyard area below the planters, to the
greatest extent practicable.
Note to Applicant: Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab should
be designed to maximize soil depths. This will require integration of the
landscape design and the structural plan. Soil depths should exceed
BCLNA Landscape Standard. At the perimeter of the building the slab can
be angled downward (1 m across and 1.2 m down) to maximize
contiguous soil volumes.
22. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking garage
vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the architectural
expression and the project’s open space and public realm.
23. Design development to the Integrated Rainwater Management Strategy to
explore opportunities for onsite rain water infiltration and soil absorption,
as follows:
(i) Maximize natural landscape best management practices;
(ii) Minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water storage;
(iii) Increase the amount of planting to the rooftop areas;
(iv) Provide a linear infiltration bio-swale along the 41st Ave property
line;
(v) Use permeable paving;
(vi) Employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever possible);
(vii) Use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage areas;
and
(viii) Maximize opportunities to infiltrate water to the soil areas outside
the underground parkade (i.e. lane setback).
Note to Applicant: Refer to the City of Vancouver Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan (IRMP), Vol.1 & 2 for further information. A consulting
engineer (subject matter expert) will need to be engaged and early phase
soil analysis will be needed. Further comments may be outstanding at the
development permit stage.
24. Provision of plans, plan details, and documentation/calculations that
support integrated rainwater management, including absorbent
landscapes, soil volumes and detention systems, as follows:
(i) Detailed storm water report with calculations describing how the
various best management practices contribute to the quality and
quantity targets;
(ii) A separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic grading
indicating intent to direct rainwater to infiltration zones; and
(iii) An overlay plan that shows amount and ratio of vegetative cover
(green roof), permeable/impermeable hardscaping and notations

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 28
describing the storage location of rainwater falling on each
surface, including roofs.
25. Provision of an arborist report that assesses impacts and requirements
for street tree canopy and root pruning.
Note to Applicant: Design development may be needed to minimize
impacts to street trees. Further coordination to occur at the development
permit stage.
26. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1’ scale minimum. The
Plant list should include the common and botanical name, size and
quantity of all existing/proposed plant material. Plant material should be
clearly illustrated on the Plan and keyed to the Plant List. The landscape
plan should include the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all
existing or proposed street trees, adjoining walkways, surface materials,
PMT/Vista transformers and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro
poles, fire hydrants.
27. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4 in. scale) through common open spaces, semi-private patio
areas and the public realm.
Note to Applicant: The sections should illustrate the slab design and
location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy, and any associated
landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas, illustrate and
dimension planters on slab, planter sizes (inside dimension), soil, root
ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and portions of the adjacent building,
such as residential units or amenity rooms.
28. Provision of a “Tree Management Plan”.
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management plan
become the primary document for tree removal/protection related matters.
Attach a large scale tree management sheet (same size sheet as
architectural sheets) to the landscape plan submission.
29. Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include signatures by the
owner, contractor, and arborist.
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties are aware of the
roles and responsibilities and that the project is on track to satisfy the
steps and recommendations outlined by the arborist. For example,
advanced planning will be needed to ensure that certain works, such as
site supervision checkpoints, are coordinated.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 29
30. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site, where
applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the development permit
plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building permit. Contact
Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering (604-871-6131) to confirm tree
planting locations and Park Board (604-257-8587) for tree species
selection and planting requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as
follows, "Final spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of good
standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved root
barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8 feet
long and 18 inches in depth. Planting depth of root ball must be below
sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree planting
completion".
31. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose bibs
for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation connection points and
hose bib symbols accurately and provide a highlighted note to verify the
irrigation is to be designed and constructed. Hose bibs are to encourage
patio gardening and hand-watering on private patio and amenity decks.
32. Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical landscape
structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis).
33. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Consider CPTED principles and avoid any lighting that
can cause glare to residential users.
Sustainability
34. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard approved by
the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate that the
development is on track to achieve the above requirements at each stage
of permit. For more detail on the above requirements and what must be
submitted at each stage, refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28,
2017 or later).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 30
35. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing buildings on site,
to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition waste (excluding hazardous
materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of development
permit application.
Engineering
36. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any
portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of way.
37. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual
section 02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access
around existing and future utilities adjacent to your site. Current
construction practices regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City
utilities at risk during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring
systems. Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be sought at
the building permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of
written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
38. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire
the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize
street use during excavation and construction (i.e. consideration to the
building design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from)
and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
39. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written confirmation
that a waste hauler can access and pick up from the location shown
without reliance of the lane for extended bin storage. If this cannot be
confirmed then an on-site garbage bin staging area is to be provided
adjacent the lane. (Please confirm that the garbage storage shown in the
lane at the east end of the site is intended for this purpose.)
40. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan; This plan is
“NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and related
permits are issued. Please contact Engineering, Development Services
and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 31
41. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public realm
changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for this
rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please make note of
the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans. Please submit a
copy of the updated plan to Engineering for review.
42. Provide automatic door opens on the doors providing access to the
bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
43. Design development to comply with the Parking and Loading Design
Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services (GMES). The following items are required:
(i) Dimension all columns encroaching into parking stalls.
Note to Applicant: Dimension the length, width and the setback
from the end of the stall.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking ramp
at all breakpoints, additional elevations within the parking level,
and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: The slope and cross fall within the parking level
must not exceed 5% and note on drawing SK-1.3.
(iii) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required. Dimension the 4 ft. aisle
required for access to all Class A bicycle spaces.
(iv) Provision of a bicycle wheel ramp to achieve ‘stairs free’ access
for the Class B bicycle spaces shown at elevation 275.55 ft. on
drawing L-1b.
(v) Modification of the internal parking ramp design as the slope must
not exceed 12.5%.
Note to Applicant: A 15% slope is shown for the three ramps
leading to angled stalls 1-20. 15% slopes may be acceptable if a
7.5% to 10% transition ramp is provided at the top and bottom for
at least 4 m in length. Consider lowering the elevation of 270 ft. to
achieve a 12.5% slope.
44. Design development to provide the required maneuvering and column
adjustments for the angled stalls. Provide turning swaths to confirm the
following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 32
(i) The 90 degree turn required to access stall 5. Typically a 10 ft. x
10 ft. corner cut is required for a 12 ft. wide maneuvering aisle,
and a 6 ft. x 6 ft. corner cut is shown with 11 ft. 10 in. maneuvering
aisle widths.
(ii) The maneuvering in and out of stall 1. Additional maneuvering
space may be required, west of the stall.
(iii) The required maneuvering for the angled stalls with column
encroachments. Typically angled stalls require maneuvering
where the columns are shown. Consider designing the stalls to
eliminate the column encroachment or relocate columns to be
outside of the required maneuvering area.
(iv) Provide gridlines on drawing SK-1.3 and provide additional
drawings at 1/8 scale.
Note to Applicant: Ensure that Class A bicycle spaces provided
outside of a bike room or compound are provided as bicycle
lockers with a 4 ft. access aisle and noted on the plans.
45. A 600 mm combined sewer is located on the neighbouring property
immediately east of the development site and must be properly
considered during excavation and construction. Please contact Jim
Burnet in Sewer Design for further details at 604-873-7464.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole
cost and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots A to F & Amended Lot G (See 330115L), Block
1023, District Lot 526, Plan 8085 to create a single parcel.
2. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory Right-of-Way
(SRW) on 41st Avenue for public pedestrian use to achieve a 2.8 m
distance measured from the property line in front of 5726 Columbia Street
and 186 West 41st Avenue and 178 West 41st Avenue; and a 1.5 m
distance from the property line in front 170, 162, 154, and 146 West 41st
Avenue for public realm improvements. The SRW will be free of any
encumbrances such as structures, stairs, planter walls, door swing,
benches, chairs and tables, and bicycle parking at grade.
3. Provision of a 1.83 m wide SRW along the eastern property line of the
future consolidated lot for existing sewer access and maintenance.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 33
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street
dedications and rights of way for the services are provided. No
development permit for the site will be issued until the security for the
services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow demands
of the project. The current application lacks the details to
determine if water main upgrading is required. Please supply
project details including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler
demand, hydrant load, and domestic water demands to determine
if water main upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system upgrading
that may be required.
(ii) Design and construct approximately 75 m of 900 mm diameter
storm sewer on Columbia Street from future service connection
(north of L/S W 41st Ave) to Columbia Park accounting for future
extension to Columbia Park green infrastructure.
Design and construct approximately 55 m of 450 mm diameter
sanitary sewer on Columbia Street from future service connection
(north of L/S W 41st Ave) to 42nd Avenue. Design shall account
for future sanitary extension to 43rd Avenue.
The post-development 10-year flow rate discharged to the sewer
shall be no greater than the 10-year pre-development flow rate.
The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF curves,
whereas the post-development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF
curves to account for climate change.
(iii) Provision of a design brief, calculations and/or model, with design
drawings for review and acceptance by City Engineer.
(iv) Provision of a groundwater management plan for review and
acceptance by City Engineer. The plan shall include confirmation
that no groundwater will be discharged to the sewer system.
Note to Applicant: Developer to contact City Engineer prior to
commencing design or analysis of sewer system as the upgrade
requirement may be modified based on servicing plan.
(v) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are
to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 34
needs in a configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services and in conformance with applicable
electrical codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: as-constructed documentation will be required
that includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
(vi) Provision of 100% of funding to the satisfaction of General
Manager of Engineering Services for street re-construction on
41st Avenue and Columbia St adjacent to the site to generally
include the following: new curb and gutter, raised protected bike
lane, bus stop, light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk, curb
ramps, and adjustment to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed street improvements. City to provide
an approved geometric design.
(vii) Provision of a contribution of $100,000 towards upgrading of the
traffic signal at Columbia Street and 41st Avenue.
(viii) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing on the east side of
Columbia Street at the lane south of 41st Avenue including new
curb returns and curb ramps on both sides of the lane entry as per
City standard.
(ix) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to current
standards including a review of the existing lighting to determine
its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(x) Provision of LED lighting at the four corners of the signalized
intersection of Columbia and 41st Avenue.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest existing
suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be primary
with all electrical plant, which include, but not limited to, System Vista,
Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including
non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property with no
reliance on public property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with B.C. Hydro
that an area has been defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has
been allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 35
Green Infrastructure
6. Provision of a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details how the
rainwater management system meets the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan (IRMP) requirements for retention, cleaning and safe
conveyance, prepared by a subject matter expert (Engineer), subject to
review, which will address the following:
(i) In this instance of a zero lot line design staff will consider:
a. The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a retention
volume for runoff reduction instead of infiltration volume;
b. Retention can be achieved through rainwater reuse, in
green roofs and planter boxes, or slow release detention
such as lined permeable pavement systems; and
c. The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a water
quality volume to be treated.
(ii) Staff do not accept the principle that distinct site areas that have
large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way compensate
for those areas of the site that are impervious, without the first and
second 24 mm of runoff being directed towards these absorbent
areas, and this being clearly demonstrated. The subsequent safe
conveyance of rainfall surpassing 48 mm in 24 hours will also
need to be demonstrated.
(iii) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from impermeable
surfaces into planted or other storage/treatment areas.
(iv) Provide outline area/volume calculations to support the overall
rainwater management strategy.
(v) Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will be considered
as rainwater retention/runoff reduction and water quality practices.
a. Planters designed as flow-through planters can be used to
meet the treatment volume requirement.
b. Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout planted
areas and shallow ponding depth within the planted areas
as part of the calculations.
(vi) The building/public realm should be designed to show leadership
in the City’s commitment to Green Building systems including an
integrative approach to rainwater management to minimize
potable water use and encourage the use of alternative water
sources in areas such as toilet flushing and irrigation.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will enter into such legal agreements with
the City, on terms and conditions acceptable to the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services, to ensure

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 36
on-going operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater
management and green infrastructure systems.
Sustainability
7. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the Director of
Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the building to report
energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the building as a whole and
certain common areas and building systems. Such an agreement will
further provide for the hiring of a qualified service provider to assist the
building owner for a minimum of three years in collecting and submitting
energy use data to the City.
Environmental Contamination
8. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services (Environmental
Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a
remediation agreement for the remediation of the site and any
contaminants which have migrated from the site on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental Services,
the General Manager of Engineering Services, and Director of
Legal Services, including a Section 219 covenant that there will be
no occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate Certificates of
Compliance satisfactory to the City for the on-site and off-site
contamination, issued by the Ministry of Environment, have been
issued to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
9. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $3,158,382, which
the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be made prior to
enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The $3,158,382
is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $1,579,191 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to increase
the City’s affordable housing supply in and around the Cambie
Corridor Plan area;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 37
(ii) $1,263,353 (40%) toward childcare and community facilities in and
around the Cambie Corridor Plan area; and
(iii) $315,838 (10%) to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to enable
heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the
property owners, but also as registerable charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject site as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and
otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment
of the By-law and at no cost to the city.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate city official having responsibility for each particular agreement,
who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated May 1, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 146-186 West 41st Avenue and
5726 Columbia Street”.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03157)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 38
6. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 3123-3129 West Broadway (Hollywood Theatre)
An application by Bonnis Properties was considered as follows:
Summary: To designate the exterior and certain elements of the interior of the existing
building at 3123 West Broadway (Hollywood Theatre) as protected heritage
property, to secure the rehabilitation and long-term preservation of the
heritage building, and to vary the Zoning and Development By-law to permit a
new six-storey mixed-use building under the existing C-2C (Commercial)
District.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to Public hearing and prior to
the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 51 emails in support of the application;
• One email opposed to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions, noting the only decision
before Council tonight is the Heritage Designation, and that the community use agreement is
still under development.
Applicant Comments
Marianne Amodio, Marianne Amodio Architecture Studio, introduced the application.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Council heard from thirteen speakers in support of the application:
Michelle Barile, Executive Director, West Broadway BIA
Sal Audia, President, GNK Insurance
Rob Wright, Senior Agent, the Feldman Agency
David Hawkes, Operator, Hollywood Theatre
Amal Wijayanayake, CEO, Amalien Records
Aaron Chapman
Dorothy Woodend
Thierry Garrel
Darren Reiter

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 39
Alan Franey
Stuart Smith
David Vaisbord, Documentary Organization of Canada
Tyler Martin
Roger Larry spoke in opposition to the application, noting the community use agreement should
be agreed on and finalized before the application is approved.
Kevin Eastwood, President, Optic Nerve Films, and Larry Benge, Save the Hollywood Theatre
Coalition, spoke to other matters related to the application, noting that certain internal aspects of
the theatre should also be included as protected heritage items, the reduction of seats in the
theatre, and the need for more space for film festivals.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers it was
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
THAT under section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law, Council suspend section 2.3(e) of the
Procedure By-law in order to conclude hearing from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The speakers list closed at 10:23 pm; the receipt of public comments closed at 10:27 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Ms. Amodio responded to concerns raised by the speakers.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff clarified the decision before Council tonight and
responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 17, 2018 40
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT discussion and decision on the application “HERITAGE DESIGNATION:
3123-3129 West Broadway (Hollywood Theatre)” be referred to the Regular Council
meeting on July 24, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:27 pm.
* * * * *