REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JULY 11, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held
on Wednesday, July 11, 2018, at 9:35 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Heather Deal, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie*
Councillor Andrea Reimer*
Councillor Tim Stevenson*, Vice-Chair (Absent for a portion of
the meeting due to Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
1. City-wide Utilities Financing Growth Strategy and Cambie Corridor Utilities
Servicing Plan, and associated amendments to the Cambie Corridor Plan
June 22, 2018
Staff from Engineering Services, Planning Urban Design and Sustainability, along with staff from
Coriolis Consulting, presented on the City-wide Utilities Financing Growth Strategy and Cambie
Corridor Utilities Servicing Plan, and associated amendments to the Cambie Corridor Plan, and
responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke generally about development timelines in the
Cambie Corridor.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 2
At 10:48 am, Councillor De Genova rose on a Point of Order under section 5.2(f) of the
Procedure By-law citing that Councillor Louie implied she did not read the letter from the Urban
Development Institute in relation to this report. The Chair ruled against Councillor De Genova’s
Point of Order and the debate continued.
The Committee agreed to separate components of the motion for the vote.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the new framework for financing growth-triggered utility
infrastructure upgrades comprised of a City-wide Utilities Infrastructure Upgrade
List and a new City-wide Utilities Development Cost Levy (DCL).
B. THAT Council:
i. Adopt in principle, a new Vancouver City-wide Utilities Development Cost Levy
(DCL) By-Law, with rates that will be levied in addition to other DCL Districts
as detailed in Appendix A, of the Policy Report dated June 22, 2018, entitled
“City-wide Utilities Financing Growth Strategy and Cambie Corridor Utilities
Servicing Plan, and associated amendments to the Cambie Corridor Plan”,
and as set out in Appendix B, of the above-noted Policy Report, which
includes a DCL rate phase-in for East side higher density residential
development with new DCL rates to be effective September 30, 2018.
ii. Approve, in principle, an amendment to the Area Specific DCL By-law
No. 9418 by removing the Grandview Boundary Development Cost Levy, with
rates applicable to Grandview Boundary reduced to $0/square foot, including
nominal rates as set out in Appendix C, of the Policy Report dated
June 22, 2018, entitled “City-wide Utilities Financing Growth Strategy and
Cambie Corridor Utilities Servicing Plan, and associated amendments to the
Cambie Corridor Plan”, and, that staff report back on amendments to the
Southeast False Creek and False Creek Flats Area Specific DCL Levy
Districts to align with City-wide DCL framework with new DCL rates to be
effective September 30, 2018.
iii. Approve, in principle, an amendment to the Vancouver DCL By-law and the
Area Specific DCL By-law as set out in Appendix C and Appendix D, of the
Policy Report dated June 22, 2018, entitled “City-wide Utilities Financing
Growth Strategy and Cambie Corridor Utilities Servicing Plan, and associated
amendments to the Cambie Corridor Plan”, to remove the construction cost
limit in the waiver for for-profit affordable rental housing and instruct staff to
report back in early 2019, with recommendations to address utilities and public
amenities requirements arising from for-profit affordable rental housing which
may be eligible for DCL waivers subject to meeting certain conditions.
iv. Instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for enactment by-laws
generally in accordance with B above, in order to enact a new Vancouver
(City-wide) Utilities By-law and amend the Vancouver (City-wide) DCL By-law
No. 9755 and the Area Specific DCL By-law No. 9418.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 3
C. THAT, subject to approval of A and B above, Council endorse the Utilities
Servicing Plan (USP) for the Cambie Corridor, and associated groundwater and
rainwater requirements.
D. THAT Council direct staff to amend the Cambie Corridor Plan to add areas for
townhouses; specifically, the 00 and 100 blocks of W 26th Avenue, and the
100 blocks of W 42nd, 43rd, 44th, and the north side of 45th Avenue.
E. THAT Council approve new and adjusted fixed CAC targets for Cambie Corridor
and Marpole Community Plan areas, as presented in the Policy Report dated
June 22, 2018, entitled “City-wide Utilities Financing Growth Strategy and Cambie
Corridor Utilities Servicing Plan, and associated amendments to the Cambie
Corridor Plan” and which take effect upon Council approval of the above-noted
Policy Report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03122)
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote)
F. THAT Council repeal the current interim rezoning policy for Cambie Corridor
(2015).
CARRIED (Vote No. 03123)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote)
G. THAT the General Manager, Planning, Urban Design, and Sustainability be
instructed to update the Cambie Corridor Plan and the Marpole Community Plan
implementation chapters to reflect the Utilities Servicing Plan.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03124)
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote)
2. Britannia Renewal – Approval of Master Plan
June 29, 2018
Staff from Real Estate and Facilities Management presented on the Britannia Renewal Master
Plan and responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in general support of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Britannia Renewal Master Plan (attached as
Appendix A, to the Administrative Report dated June 29, 2018, entitled “Britannia
Renewal – Approval of Master Plan”), as the basis for renewing and transforming
the site over the next ten to twenty (10-20) years.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 4
B. THAT Council direct staff to proceed with the next phase of the Britannia Renewal
with Site Partners (the City of Vancouver, the Britannia Community Services
Centre Society, the Vancouver School Board, the Vancouver Public Library and
the Vancouver Park Board), including site rezoning and design development
options and report back to Partner Boards and Council.
C. THAT Council endorse the following funding strategy to support the
implementation of the Britannia Renewal Master Plan:
 Allocating property tax funding toward the renewal components included in the
Master Plan, including approval of $10 million from the 2015-2018, Capital
Plan and, subject to Council approval on July 25, 2018, $5 million from the
2019-2022, Capital Plan to support the rezoning and design development
options and implementation of the first phase of the Master Plan;
 Allocating development contributions, such as Community Amenity
Contributions and Development Cost Levies, to support the growth-related
components included in the Master Plan; and
 Pursuing Federal and Provincial government funding toward the
implementation of the Master Plan, with high priority given to pursuing funding
for the construction of the first phase of the Master Plan.
Expenditures in 2018 to be managed within the current overall Annual Capital
Expenditure Budget; expenditures for subsequent years to be brought forward as
part of the annual Capital Budget process.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03125)
(Councillor Louie absent for the vote)
* * * * *
At 11:44 am, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the length of the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
3. Arbutus Greenway: Design Vision and Implementation Strategy
June 12, 2018
Staff from Engineering Services presented the Arbutus Greenway Design Vision and
Implementation Strategy.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 5
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:00 pm and reconvened at 2:34 pm to continue with Item 3.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from four speakers in general support of the recommendations, and one
speaker opposed to aspects of the plan.
Following the hearing of speakers, staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council endorse in principle the design vision for the Arbutus Greenway as
described in the Administrative Report dated June 12, 2018, entitled “Arbutus
Greenway: Design Vision & Implementation Strategy”, including the northward
and southward extensions of the greenway, and direct staff to finalize the Arbutus
Greenway Master Plan.
B. THAT Council endorse the implementation strategy for the Arbutus Greenway, as
described in the Administrative Report dated June 12, 2018, entitled “Arbutus
Greenway: Design Vision & Implementation Strategy”, including the following
elements:
i. Development of detailed design for the first phase of implementation of
character zones within the purchased corridor;
ii. Further development of designs for the preferred northward and southward
greenway extensions, in collaboration with Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh First Nations and in consultation with the public and
stakeholders;
iii. Design and construction of an all-ages-and-abilities walking, wheeling, and
cycling pathway connecting the Arbutus Greenway at Milton Street to the
Fraser River (the preferred southward extension) via the undeveloped
West 75th Avenue right-of-way and Hudson Street, subject to archaeological
assessment and collaboration with Musqueam Nation; and
iv. Continued collaboration with the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation to
integrate the Arbutus Greenway design and coordinate implementation with
existing and planned parks adjacent to the corridor.
C. THAT Council direct staff to prepare recommended amendments to the Arbutus
Corridor Official Development Plan to remove lands not required for transportation
or greenway purposes, develop planning programs for areas along the greenway
where appropriate and in alignment with City priorities, and work toward the
development of surplus City-owned lands along East Boulevard between West
37th Avenue and approximately West 40th Avenue.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 6
D. THAT Council direct staff to develop a stewardship plan for the Arbutus Greenway,
addressing ongoing management of the asset and programming of public spaces
along the greenway.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03126)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
4. City Support for FREE Outdoor Public Events
May 28, 2018
At the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the
above-noted report to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
July 11, 2018, to hear from speakers.
At 3:33 pm, Councillor Bremner declared Conflict of Interest on Item 4 as he is an employee of
Pace Group Communications, who are often contracted by event organizers. He left the Council
Chamber and did not return until the conclusion of this item.
Staff from Engineering Services presented on City support for free outdoor public events, and
responded to questions.
The Committee heard from three speakers who were generally supportive of the
recommendations and had suggestions on how the City can support free events in the city.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve staff to engage in exchange between the event industry
and the City through a series of workshops, hosted by City staff or City-hired
consultants/service providers within a two-year period, effective May 2, 2018. The
workshops will build capacity and foster innovation towards event financial and
environmental sustainability.
B. THAT Council approve the current Festival Expediting Staff Team (FEST) offset of
$1,000 established in 2004, be increased to $2,000 for qualifying non-profit events
for a two-year period, effective May 2, 2018.
C. THAT Council approve new temporary security and policing offsets for a two
year-period, effective May 2, 2018. These new temporary security offsets are as
follows:
i. Up to $1,000 per eligible event to offset City-provided policing and security
costs, to aid events with security costs that do not qualify for the FEST
offset.
ii. Additional offset support for events that have been billed more than
$10,000 in Vancouver Police Department (VPD) charges and who also
experience more than a 10% increase in VPD charges over the prior year,

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 7
after other offsets have been applied. These events may apply for
additional financial relief for the variance over 10%, up to a maximum of
$5,000.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the following be added as D:
D. THAT staff report back to Council as soon as possible with a list of events
that may be financially vulnerable, before the conclusion of the two-year
research period is completed, with recommended actions.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03128)
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the following be added as E:
E. THAT Council affirm staff's efforts, as part of the Special Events Policy
Update, to work towards providing more accurate cost estimates to event
organizers and creating a schedule of fees for large events.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03129)
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
The amendments having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY the motion as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03130) with Mayor Robertson absent for the vote, and
Councillor Bremner absent due to Conflict of Interest.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:36 pm and reconvened at 6:08 pm to continue, beginning with
Item 5.
* * * * *
5. Updates to General Policy for Higher Buildings
June 25, 2018
At the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the
above-noted report to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
July 11, 2018, to hear from speakers.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 8
The Committee heard from one speaker in general support of the recommendations.
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve revisions to the General Policy for Higher Buildings generally as
described in Appendix A, of the Policy Report dated June 25, 2018, entitled “Updates to
General Policy for Higher Buildings”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03131)
(Councillor Louie absent for the vote)
6. Moratorium on Demolition of Purpose Built Rental Housing Buildings
At the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the following
motion to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on July 11, 2018, to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in general support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver’s Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock report,
unanimously passed by Council at a June 5, 2018 public hearing:
 recommends “further study to determine effective measures and incentives to
encourage reinvestment in the existing rental stock while considering impacts
on existing renters”;
 directs staff to explore the feasibility of municipal incentives to support
structural and energy upgrades in existing rental buildings;
 recommends partnering with LandlordBC on a program to support and
encourage capital planning and energy benchmarking in existing rental
housing;
 recommends working with the provincial and federal governments on
programs to support major capital and energy-efficient upgrades in existing
private market rental housing, including initiatives for energy assessments,
financing, tax incentives and/or grant assistance to support needed capital
upgrades and energy-efficient retrofits conditional on maintaining affordability
and/or minimizing renter displacement;
2. Although the City of Vancouver’s Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan
protects against the loss of approximately 53,500 units of rental housing (77
percent of Vancouver’s total rental stock) in terms of ensuring there is 1:1
replacement of rental units that are demolished, it does not protect the affordable
rents that the older rental housing stock provides;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 9
3. Rents in the rental housing that replaces the demolished or renovated older rental
apartments are usually much higher—typically at market rates that are often more
than twice the price;
4. The City’s Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock report also reports that:
 City staff have observed an increased incidence of renters being displaced for
major and minor renovations of existing rental buildings;
 Since 2015, there have been development applications involving major
renovations or redevelopment of existing rental buildings requiring the
relocation of tenants from 1,605 units of purpose-built rental housing, 13% of
which were occupied by long-term renters with tenancies of 10 years or more;
5. The City is committed to strengthening protection for renters under the Tenant
Relocation and Protection Policy and Rental Housing Stock Official Development
Plan, but it is increasingly difficult to find replacement housing for evicted tenants
in the same neighbourhood at the same rent.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:
A. THAT a moratorium be placed on the demolition of older purpose-built rental
buildings for one year or more, if necessary, until such time as staff both report
back to Council with recommendations arising from the Measures to Retain the
Rental Housing Stock report and measures to protect the existing rental housing
stock are implemented.
B. THAT staff’s report back on the Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock
report include measures to protect affordable rents.
referred
At 7:02 pm Councillor De Genova rose on a Point of Order under section 5.2(f) of the Procedure
By-law citing that Councillor Reimer put words in her mouth. The Chair ruled against Councillor
De Genova’s Point of Order and the debate continued.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the motion to place a moratorium on the demolition of purpose built rental (PBR)
be referred to the Renters Advisory Committee (RAC) for their advice prior to
consideration by Council;
FURTHER THAT staff provide the following information to RAC to assist with their
consideration:
 current policies that protect existing PBR;
 number of existing PBR units that have been lost to redevelopment;
 number of existing PBR units that were lost but replaced at or near the same price
(e.g. New Jubilee);
 number of new PBR units built on the land former PBR units were on;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 10
 impact of a full moratorium on amount of new rental that would be built;
 when a moratorium could come into effect (i.e. how many applications are
currently in the system and how long would it take before they all went through
decision-making processes); and
 how "older" would/could be defined.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03132)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, and De Genova opposed)
7. Northeast Quadrant Greenway
At the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the following
motion to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on July 11, 2018, to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker who expressed general support of more green space,
and shared concerns with some aspects of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver first established the idea of Transportation Greenways in
1995 and defines Greenways as linear public corridors for pedestrians and
cyclists that connect parks, nature reserves, cultural features, historic sites,
neighbourhoods and retail areas;
2. In the last decade the City has made impressive strides in advancing the City
Greenway network including filling the Kits beach to Jericho park gap to complete
the Canada Place to UBC Seaside Greenway and adding several new greenways
including the Arbutus Corridor, North Arm Trail, Comox - Helmcken and Ridgeway
Greenways;
3. The City has set a goal of ensuring there is a City Greenway no more than a
25-minute walk or a 10-minute bike ride from every residence in Vancouver;
4. There are currently no City Greenways in the northeast quadrant of the city which
stretches from Main Street to Boundary Road, and Grandview Highway to Burrard
Inlet;
5. The northeast quadrant of the city has the lowest per capita open space in
Vancouver, the least percentage of tree canopy cover at almost half that of the
city-wide average, and the eastside generally has significantly less plazas,
parklets and neighbourhood public spaces;
6. The northeast quadrant has the lowest per capita incomes in the city and the
highest number of renters: both demographics are least likely to have access to

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 11
private green space, most likely to use active transportation, and receive the
greatest benefit from the health and social aspect of greenways.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council support an “East Van
City Greenway” in the northeast quadrant as a priority in the Greenway program and that
staff review the opportunities for a City Greenway in the northeast quadrant in a timely
way, such that the funding for all or part of an “East Van City Greenway” could be
adequately considered for inclusion in the City's 2019-2022 Capital Plan.
amended
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer consideration for investing in any Greenway in East Vancouver to
staff for consultation with the public and the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation.
FURTHER THAT Council request that considerations for any new greenways be
considered in the most greenspace deficient areas of East Vancouver, and that staff
consider the metric of 2.75 acres of greenspace per 1000 people in a specific
neighbourhood and area.
not put
The Chair ruled the referral motion out of order under section 4.3(g) of the Procedure By-law,
noting consultation on the Capital Plan is already underway, and greenways are a City function,
not a Parks function; furthermore, the metrics cited have since been replaced.
At 7:47 pm, during debate on the item, the Chair permitted Councillor De Genova to ask a
question of staff; subsequently, the Chair ruled the question out of order, as it was not related to
the matter at hand.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT Council add the following at the end of the motion:
FURTHER THAT staff review the opportunities for improvements to the Central
Valley and BC Parkway greenways such that the funding for improvements could
be adequately considered for inclusion in the City's 2019-2022 Capital Plan.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03133)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
The amendment having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY, the motion as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03134).

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 12
8. City of Vancouver Led Fund for Large Community and Special Events
At the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the following
motion to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on July 11, 2018, to
hear from speakers.
At 8:03 pm Councillor Bremner declared Conflict of Interest on Item 8, as he is an employee of
Pace Group Communications, who are often contracted by event organizers. He left the Council
Chamber and did not return.
The speaker for this item withdrew their name from the Speaker’s List.
MOVER: Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Costs for permitted special events in the City of Vancouver continue to rise each
year;
2. Some events in the City of Vancouver have been cancelled due to rising costs
required by the City of Vancouver, including but not limited, to the annual Canada
Day Parade, the annual St. Patrick’s Day Parade and the annual Vancouver Pride
Week Davie Street Party;
3. Longstanding annual events that are age friendly and free to the public have been
canceled in the City of Vancouver, due to rising costs related to permits, policing
and road closures required by the City of Vancouver are free, age friendly and
public events;
4. Several community and city recognized events are organized by non-profit
organizations that rely on donors, sponsors and private fundraising to cover event
costs;
5. The City of Vancouver has committed to investing in Arts, Cultural and Community
Events;
6. Currently, there is no information on the City of Vancouver website as to how an
organization, corporation, or private donor can apply to contribute to the City of
Vancouver to costs for a city recognized or community led special events;
7. The City of Vancouver accepts corporate sponsors for large civic events, including
but not limited to “Honda Celebration of Lights” that includes a “Concord Lounge
at the Inukshuk” and “YVR Observation Deck” or the Concord New Year’s Eve
Party;
8. For City of Vancouver recognized events, civic events or events granted permits
by the City of Vancouver, there is no clear schedule of levels suggested for donor
recognition, including but not limited to signage, advertising and logo recognition
on event materials.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 13
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
A. THAT Council direct staff to consider the possibility of a Special Events Fund,
championed by the City of Vancouver, that accepts donations from corporations
and private donors, for free public events in Vancouver that face financial
hardships due to rising city costs;
FURTHER THAT Staff consult with stakeholders including but not limited to the
event production community, event organizers and organizations to develop a
framework, and any terms and conditions for donors and events applying to this
fund.
B. THAT Council direct staff to consider providing cost estimates to potential
sponsors and donors, and potentially create a schedule of typical fees for large
events that demonstrate fee for service and report back to Council with
recommendations in 2019.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT A and B, above, be referred to staff as part of the special events policy update to
come back to Council in 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03135)
(Councillors Jang, Louie, Stevenson, and Reimer absent for the vote)
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
The Committee adjourned at 8:16 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JULY 11, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, July 11, 2018,
at 8:17 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal*
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Bremner (Conflict of Interest)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, July 11, 2018
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. City-wide Utilities Financing Growth Strategy and Cambie Corridor Utilities Servicing
Plan, and associated amendments to the Cambie Corridor Plan
2. Britannia Renewal – Approval of Master Plan
3. Arbutus Greenway: Design Vision and Implementation Strategy
4. City Support for FREE Outdoor Public Events
5. Updates to General Policy for Higher Buildings
6. Moratorium on Demolition of Purpose Built Rental Housing Buildings
7. Northeast Quadrant Greenway

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 2
8. City of Vancouver Led Fund for Large Community and Special Events
Items 1 to 8
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of July 11, 2018, as contained in items 1 to 8, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Deal absent for the vote)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote on Items 4 and 8 due to Conflict of Interest)
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. REZONING: 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue
On July 10, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at the Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting on July 11, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
At the July 10, 2018, Public Hearing, Councillor Bremner declared conflict of interest on this
matter and was therefore ineligible to vote.
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions submitted by
Council after hearing the item at the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, staff, along with
staff from Durante Kreuk Ltd. Landscape Architect, responded to additional questions from
Council.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Wensley Architecture Ltd. on behalf of The Molnar
Group (Investments) Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone [Lots 1, 2, and 3, all of
Block 16, District Lot 195, Plan 11972; Lot 15, Except Portions in Plan 8493 and
9132, District Lot 195, Plan 745; PIDs: 008-978-476, 005-855-071, 008-978-492
and 015-140-199 respectively] from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio
(FSR) from 0.60 to 1.58 and the maximum building height from 9.5 m (31.2 ft.) to
12.8 m (42.0 ft.), to permit the development of 3½-storey townhouses and a
four-storey apartment building, along with the retention, relocation, designation
and protection of a heritage home at 2088 East 20th Avenue, for a combined
total of 69 secured market rental housing units, generally as presented in

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 3
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue”, be approved subject to
the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Wensley Architecture Ltd., and
stamped “Received City Planning Department, March 27, 2018”, subject
to the following conditions, provided that the Director of Planning may
allow minor alterations to this form of development when approving the
detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve interface to the lane, as follows:
(i) Increase the setback for Building A from the south property
line to minimum 8 ft., for the full height of the building;
(ii) Provide an approximately 3 ft. landscape buffer at the
south property line, alongside the ramp and landing in front
of the garbage facility; and
(iii) Replace paved area between the landing and the stair
access to the sunken amenity terrace with landscaping.
Note to Applicant: This condition will result in a gross reduction in
density of approximately 450 sq. ft. (to 75,055 sq. ft. total). Refer
to Landscape conditions for more detailed recommendations for
planting along the lane.
2. Design development to improve the 20th Avenue and Hull Street
frontages, as follows:
(i) Clearly identify extent of existing/retained granite walls,
versus new retaining walls on site plan and building
elevations (refer to Conditions #8 and #13);
(ii) Confirm and clarify all grade alterations, sunken areas,
retaining walls, and landscape treatment in Hull Street front
yard;
(iii) Improve interface between the heritage house and Building
E, by enhancing the landscape treatment and building

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 4
elevation;
(iv) Add planters (or planted areas) in front of all porches in
Buildings D and E;
(v) Revise the Context Elevation to accurately show building
separations (i.e. 14 ft. between the heritage house and
Building E, and 12 ft. between Buildings E and D).
Note to Applicant: The sunken patios and window wells show on
site plan and floorplan do not correspond to the elevation drawing
of Building A, which suggests extensive excavation and steeply
sloped areas. Note that large sunken areas in the front yard are
not approvable. The landscape plan should also be revised to
reflect any retaining structures or steep slopes that require a
different planting approach.
The west elevation of Building E will provide a “backdrop” to the
heritage house. Consider adding windows and/or further design
treatment, particularly at the lower storeys, as well as an
enhanced landscape treatment (refer to Landscape Design
conditions).
3. Design development to improve livability, as follows:
(i) Increase depth of front porches of garden units to minimum
5 ft. clear, to create a useable private outdoor space;
(ii) Provide direct access from amenity room at L1 to the
adjacent patio;
(iii) Consider adding further seating/activity areas in the
courtyards (i.e. east end of north courtyard);
(iv) Add windows to the east elevation of Buildings D and E;
and
(v) Consideration to add windows at Level 1 on the side
elevations of Buildings B, C, D and E.
Note to Applicant: Windows in the side elevations of Buildings D
and E will improve access to light and ventilation in the side units,
and will also improve the architectural expression. Window
locations should be coordinated between the floorplans and
building elevations.
4. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of LEED®
Gold rating, with 1 point for water efficiency and stormwater

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 5
management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as compared to
ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and application for
certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must submitted
as part of the Development Permit application and drawing
submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional or
Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns with
the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of registration
from the CaGBC must be provided with the application and the
project registration number incorporated into the drawings.
Application for Certification will be required at a subsequent stage.
5. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any
built features intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a
design rationale for the features noted. For more information, see
the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Housing
6. That the proposed unit mix (6% two-bedroom units and 61%
three-bedroom units), be included in the Development Permit
drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board, provided that it does
not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be
suitable for families with children.
7. Prior to issuance of a Development Permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
secured market rental housing is being provided as part of the City
of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and location to be
approved by the City.
Heritage
8. Retain key landscape features such as the stone walls and gates
which partially encompass the Rankin property at 3560-3570 Hull
Street as per the Vancouver Heritage Commission
recommendation (see also Condition #13).
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 6
9. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
10. Design development to add landscape buffer from SkyTrain and
improve interface at the lane, as follows:
(i) provide an evergreen hedge plant material between
Building A ramp and south property line, in the increased
setback (refer to Condition #1);
(ii) provide a minimum of two additional large calliper trees in
the increased setback east of the ramp (refer to Condition
#1).
11. Design development to improve the Hull Street and East 20th
Avenue interface to achieve a smooth public-private transition,
without abrupt changes in grade, creating a friendly layered
planting effect, oriented to the street (refer to Condition #2).
Note to Applicant: This should be confirmed by provision of clear
grades and to include typical sections from building face to
sidewalks.
12. Design development to integrate the heritage house into the
landscape, by using similar plant materials, colours, textures,
paving types, and accents, in order to achieve a unified concept.
13. Design the development to enable the retention and/or repair of
the original stone wall at the corner of Hull Street and East 20th
Avenue (refer to Condition #8).
Note to Applicant: The stone wall is a major landscape element
that is part of the Rankin House site at 3560-3570 Hull Street,
identified by the Vancouver Heritage Commission as having
historical importance. Standard Planning policy and city-wide
design guidelines encourage retention of such historical
landmarks whenever possible.
14. Design development to expand programming of common amenity
areas or green roof to provide as much usable common space as
possible.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 7
Note to Applicant: This should include urban agriculture, additional
opportunities for social interaction, such as additional benches
and seat walls for passive seating and gathering. Urban
agriculture plots should follow the City’s Urban Agriculture
Guidelines for the Private Realm and include infrastructure
required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc. Garden plots
should be wheelchair accessible. Outdoor spaces should be
visually accessible from common indoor amenity rooms. Any
adjacent mechanical rooms should be adequately screened.
15. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and public
realm.
16. Design development to the landscape treatment to increase the
volume of soil, tree canopy cover and planting on slab, as follows:
(i) consideration for intensive/extensive green roof and
related amenity programming;
(ii) lower the slab in the courtyard area below the planters, to
the greatest extent practicable.
Note to Applicant: Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab
should be designed to maximize soil depths. This will require
integration of the landscape design and the structural plan. Soil
depths should exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard. At the
perimeter of the building the slab can be angled downward (1 m
across and 1.2 m) to maximize contiguous soil volumes.
17. Design development to the Integrated Rainwater Management
Strategy to explore opportunities for onsite rain water infiltration
and soil absorption, as follows:
(i) maximize natural landscape best management practises;
(ii) minimize the necessity for hidden mechanical water
storage;
(iii) increase the amount of planting to the rooftop areas,
where possible;
(iv) consider linear infiltration bio-swales along property lines;
(v) use permeable paving;
(vi) employ treatment chain systems (gravity fed, wherever
possible); and

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 8
(vii) use grading methods to direct water to soil and storage
areas.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the City of Vancouver Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP), Vol.1 & 2 for further
information. A consulting engineer (subject matter expert) will
need to be engaged and early phase soil analysis will be needed.
Further comments may be outstanding at the development permit
stage.
18. Provision of plans, plan details and documentation/calculations
that support integrated rainwater management, including
absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and detention systems, as
follows:
(i) detailed stormwater report with calculations describing how
the various best management practices contribute to the
quality and quantity targets;
(ii) a separate soil volume overlay plan with schematic grading
indicating intent to direct rainwater to infiltration zones; and
(iii) an overlay plan that shows amount and ratio of vegetative
cover (green roof), permeable/impermeable hardscaping
and notations describing the storage location of rainwater
falling on each surface, including roofs.
Note to Applicant: The sustainable summary water balance
calculations assume soil volumes are capable of receiving
rainwater are only valid if water is directed from hard surfaces to
infiltration zones.
19. Provision of an arborist report to justify tree removal of any
proposed removals and recommend tree protection measures for
the retained trees.
Note to Applicant: If required, a Letter of Assurance should also
be submitted to ensure that arborist will supervise any work within
the tree protection zones.
20. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 9
21. Coordination with Engineering Department to ensure grades
remain unchanged in the northeast corner, to enable safe tree
retention.
22. Coordination between arborist report and plans to clarify tree
retention/removals.
23. At the time of development permit application, the following:
(i) Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and
hard landscaping;
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8 in.:1 ft. scale
minimum. The plant list should include the common and
botanical name, size and quantity of all existing/ proposed
plant material. Plant material should be clearly illustrated
on the Plan and keyed to the Plant List. The landscape
plan should include the public realm treatment (to the curb)
and all existing or proposed street trees, adjoining
walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista transformers and
public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire
hydrants.
(ii) Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross
sections (minimum 1/4 in. scale) through common open
spaces, semi-private patio areas and the public realm;
Note to Applicant: The sections should illustrate, the slab
design and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree
canopy and any associated landscaping. For private patios
and amenity areas, illustrate and dimension planters on
slab, planter sizes (inside dimension), soil, root ball,
retaining walls, steps, patios and portions of the adjacent
building, such as residential units or amenity rooms.
(iii) Provision of a “Tree Management Plan”;
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree
management plan become the primary document for tree
removal/ protection related matters.
(iv) Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include
signatures by the owner, contractor and arborist;
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties
are aware of the roles and responsibilities and that the
project is on track to satisfy the steps and
recommendations outlined by the arborist. For example,
advanced planning will be needed to ensure that certain
works, such as site supervision checkpoints, are

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 10
coordinated.
(v) Coordination for the provision of new street trees adjacent
to the development site, where applicable;
Note to Applicant: New street trees to be shown and
confirmed on the development permit plans. Contact
Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering (604.871.6131) to
confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604.257.8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements.
Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final spacing,
quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6cm caliper, and installed with
approved root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil.
Root barriers shall be 8 feet long and 18 inches in.
Planting depth of root ball must be below sidewalk grade.
Call Park Board for inspection after tree planting
completion".
(vi) Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas
and hose bibs for all patios and common areas greater
than 100 sq. ft.;
Note to Applicant: On the plan, illustrate irrigation
connection points and hose bib symbols accurately and
provide a highlighted note to verify the irrigation is to be
designed and constructed. Hose bibs are requested to
encourage patio gardening and hand-watering on private
patio and amenity decks.
(vii) Provision of enlarged detailed elevations for all vertical
landscape structures and features (i.e. green walls, trellis);
(viii) Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Sustainability
24. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements of
the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended
up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63 points
(LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 11
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates which
credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their building
application, as submitted, incorporates strategies, features or
technologies that will help achieve these credits. The strategy,
along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated into the
drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional
or Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns
with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the application
and the project registration number incorporated into the
drawings. Application for Certification will be required at a
subsequent stage.
25. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition #24, the applicant
may choose the meet the requirements of the Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Engineering
26. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation &
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal
or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
27. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
28. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 12
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent to your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
29. Delete curb returns shown at the parkade access and show a
standard City commercial crossing. Note a separate crossing
application to Engineering Services is required.
30. Please place the following statements on the landscape plan: This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
“The existing ditch line in the lane east of Hull and west of
Marshall is to be maintained as is and is not to be filled or
excavated in any way without the express written consent of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.”
31. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to engineering for
review.
32. Provision of a finalized Transportation Assessment and
Management Study (TAMS) Design development to improve
access and design of bicycle parking and comply with the Bicycle
Parking Design Supplement, including but not limited to:
(i) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle storage rooms.
(ii) All Class B bike parking to be provided on private property
and should not encroach in any way on public property.
(iii) Bicycle room(s) must not contain more than 40 bicycle

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 13
spaces except where the additional bicycle spaces are
comprised of lockers.
33. Design development to improve the parkade layout and access
design and comply with the Parking and Loading Design
Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services, including, but not limited to:
(i) Improve visibility for two-way vehicle movement at turns.
(ii) Provision of improved interface of the parkade access and
street. Ensure that walls at interface do not conflict with
exiting motorist sightlines.
(iii) Visitor parking is to be provided separate from the secured
residential parking (Parking Bylaw Section 4.13.5).
Note to Applicant: The following information is required for
drawing submission at the development permit stage to
facilitate a complete Transportation review:
a. All types of parking and loading spaces individually
numbered, and labelled on the drawings.
b. Dimension of column encroachments into parking
stalls.
c. Dimensions for typical parking spaces.
d. Dimensions of additional setbacks for parking
spaces due to columns and walls.
e. Dimensions of manoeuver aisles and the drive
aisles at the parkade entrance and all gates.
f. Section drawings showing elevations and minimum
vertical clearances for parking levels, ramps, and
security gates. These clearances must consider
mechanical projections and built obstructions.
g. Areas of minimum vertical clearances labelled on
parking levels.
h. Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and
drive aisles at all breakpoints, loading bays,
disability spaces, and at all entrances. The slope
and length of the ramped sections at all breakpoints
to be shown on the submitted drawings.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 14
i. Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class
A bicycle spaces to reach the outside. Stair ramps
are not generally acceptable.
j. The location of all poles and guy wires to be shown
on the site plan.
34. Green Infrastructure submission requirements for the
development permit stage must include the following:
(i) Pre-development site plan showing orthophoto and
existing drainage areas and appurtenances;
(ii) A proposed site plan that delineates drainage areas,
including the area measurements for pervious/impervious
areas, and identifies appropriately sized green
infrastructure practices for each of those areas;
(iii) Geotechnical study that evaluates the potential and risks
for onsite rainwater infiltration:
a. Infiltration testing at likely locations for infiltration
practices and a proposed design infiltration rate;
b. Soil stratigraphy;
c. Depth to bedrock and seasonally high groundwater;
and
d. Assessment of infiltration risks such as slope
stability and soil contamination.
(iv) If lower tier green infrastructure options are chosen, then
justifications must be included in the RMP report;
(v) Include supplementary documentation for any proprietary
products that clearly demonstrates how they contribute to
the targets;
(vi) The plan and report must demonstrate that access has
been provided for maintaining the rainwater management
system, such as providing truck access for pumping out
sediment traps;
(vii) Maintenance and operation guide for the rainwater
management system that will be provided to the eventual
owner or party responsible for maintenance.
Note to Applicant: The building/public realm should be designed to

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 15
show leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building
systems including an integrative approach to rainwater
management to minimize potable water use and encourage the
use of alternative water sources in areas such as toilet flushing
and irrigation.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services, as necessary, and at the sole cost
and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the
following:
Engineering
1. At the direction and discretion of the General Manager of
Engineering Services (GMES), one of the following:
(i) Consolidation of Lots 1, 2 & 3 all of Block 16, Plan 11972;
and Lot 15, Except Portions in Plan 8493 and 9132, Plan
745 all of District Lot 195 to create a single site and
subdivision of that site to result in the dedication of the
southerly 20 feet of current Lot 15 for lane purposes; or
(ii) Consolidation of Lots 1, 2 & 3, all of Block 16, Plan 11972;
and Lot 15, Except Portions in Plan 8493 and 9132, Plan
745 all of District Lot 195 to create a single site and
provision of a Statutory Right of Way and Option to
Purchase Agreement over the southerly 20 feet of current
Lot 15 (for City Lane purposes and all utilities). The SRW
is to provide for the application of all City by-laws as if the
SRW area were City lane and the owner shall be
responsible for the maintenance of the SRW area including
snow removal. The option may be exercised by the City at
any time.
Note to Applicant: After the GMES advises the applicant
which alternative is required, a subdivision plan and
application to the Subdivision and Strata Group is required.
2. Enter into a Section 219 Covenant (which will include an equitable
charge and rent charge) requiring the owner to maintain and
remove snow from the existing dedicated lane south of Lots 1, 2 &
3 and that portion of the site dedicated as lane, if any, in order to
satisfy Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services requirements and the
Vancouver Building Bylaw. This Section 219 Covenant may be

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 16
separate from, or combined with, the SRW and Option to
Purchase agreement contemplated in Condition (c)1(ii) above.
3. Release of Indemnity Agreement 403652M (support agreement)
prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
4. Confirmation that the original stone wall in the northwest corner of
the site is to be retained and restored and, if the wall will encroach
onto a City street, then legal agreements are to be made to permit
the encroachment.
Note to Applicant: An application to the City Surveyor is required.
5. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of sewer upgrading as follows:
a. The development site is to be serviced off of Hull
Street.
b. The project is to replace the existing combined
sewer along Hull Street from Victoria Drive to 19th
Avenue and along 19th Avenue from Victoria Drive
to existing manhole #422113 (immediately south of
Metro Vancouver trunk sewer) with new storm and

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 17
sanitary sewers (approx. 225 m). Storm sewer is
anticipated to be up to 450 mm dia. and sanitary
sewer to be 200 mm dia. Sewer sizes and location
subject to detailed design by Developer's Engineer.
c. The sanitary sewer to be designed to meet future
pump station requirements. The applicant’s
Engineer is to contact City's Sewer & Drainage
Design Engineer prior to commencing design.
d. Submission of a design brief, calculations and
design drawings are required, all to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) If the owner is directed to comply with condition (c)(1)(ii),
then provision of construction of a new lane over the
proposed Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) area to be used
as lane and construction of the eastern leg of the
dedicated lane out to Marshall Street to current City
standards, including adjustment and or provision of all
infrastructure for a typical lane operation.
(iv) Provision of updated regulatory signage adjacent the site
where necessary, all to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
(v) Provision of street re-construction for street improvements
on 20th Avenue adjacent to the site to generally include
the following: new curb and gutter, curb ramps, street re-
paving to the west edge, a broom finish concrete sidewalk
with saw cut joints, improved street lighting to LED
standards including a lighting analysis and design, and
adjustment to all existing infrastructure to accommodate
the proposed street improvements.
(vi) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 18
(vii) Provision of 1.83 m (6 ft.) saw-cut broom-finish concrete
sidewalks offset 4 ft. from the property line on Hull Street
and 20th Avenue.
(viii) Provision of upgraded street lighting on Hull Street and
20th Avenue adjacent to the site to current standards
including a review of the existing lighting to determine its
adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(ix) Provision of standard concrete lane crossing, curb returns
and ramps at the intersection of the new lane and Hull
Street.
(x) Provision of a standard corner bulge on Hull Street at
Victoria Diversion. Work to include adjustment to all
existing infrastructure to accommodate the installation of
the corner bulge.
(xi) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
6. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
7. Provision of a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details
how the rainwater management system meets the IRMP
requirements for retention, cleaning and safe conveyance,
prepared by a subject matter expert (Engineer) and signed/sealed
by same, subject to review. The applicant should take into account
the following:
(i) Runoff from the first 24 mm of rainfall from all areas,

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 19
including rooftops, paved areas, and landscape must be
retained and treated on site (landscapes over native
subsoils with appropriately sized topsoil meets the 24 mm
retention requirement);
(ii) Staff will not accept the principle that distinct site areas that
have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way
compensate for those areas of the site that are impervious,
without the runoff from the impervious areas being directed
on to these absorbent areas, and this being clearly
demonstrated.
a. Where areas of growing medium do not have runoff
directed on to them (from above) from adjacent
impervious surfaces they shall be assumed to be
receiving/treating/storing only the rainfall that falls
directly on to them;
b. IRMP targets to be achieved on site i.e. without
using street right of way.
(iii) The applicant must prioritize methods of retention
according to the three tiers below. Justification must be
provided for using a lower tier retention option. The tiers
are as follows:
a. First tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Rainwater Harvesting for Reuse, Green Roofs, and
Infiltration;
b. Second tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Retention within non-infiltrating landscapes,
including absorbent landscape on slab, closed
bottom planter boxes, and lined bioretention
systems;
c. Third tier priority green infrastructure practices –
Detention storage with treatment and slow release.
(iv) Surfaces designed for motor vehicle use and other high
pollutant generating surfaces require an additional 24 mm
of treatment beyond the first 24 mm retained (for a total of
48 mm treated).
(v) Water quality volume (24 mm for low pollutant generating
surfaces like roofs and 48 mm for high pollutant generating
surfaces like driveways) that leaves the site must be
treated to a standard of 80% TSS removal by mass by
using either individual BMPs that meet the standard or

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 20
treatment trains of BMPs that, when combined, meet the
standard. For proprietary treatment devices:
a. Provide product information for all treatment
practices.
b. Products need to be certified by TAPE – The
Technology Assessment Protocol – Ecology
Program, Washington State Department of
Ecology’s process for evaluating and approving
emerging rainwater treatment BMPs. The applicant
may propose other technologies but must provide
supporting information that shows the technology
meets the standard.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will enter into such legal
agreements with the City, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services, to ensure on-going operations of certain
stormwater storage, rainwater management and green
infrastructure systems.
Housing
8. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement and Section 219
Covenant securing all residential units as market rental housing
units for the longer of 60 years and life of the building, subject to
the following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time; and
(iv) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Section 219
Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City
by by-law enacted pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver
Charter.
Heritage

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 21
9. Council approval of a Heritage Designation By-law for the heritage
building, known as the “Rosenberg Residence” located at 2088
East 20th Avenue, and enactment of this Heritage Designation By-
law.
Note to Applicant: Staff intend to bring the Heritage Designation
By-law forward for enactment shortly after the Public Hearing
(should Council approve the Heritage Designation By-law), in part
to allow for the notice to be registered in the Land Title Office
within 30 days of enactment, a Vancouver Charter requirement,
but prior to any consolidation or subdivision of the parcels. If there
are any concerns about the timing of the Heritage Designation By-
law enactment, please contact the rezoning planner. The applicant
is to ensure that the consolidation of the lots occurs only after the
Heritage Designation By-law is enacted and notice of the
designation is registered on title to the lands.
10. Enter into a Heritage Restoration Covenant (which will include a
Section 219 Covenant, Statutory Right of Way and Equitable
Charge) for the rehabilitation and conservation of the heritage
building known as the “Rosenberg Residence” to the satisfaction
of the Director of Planning and the Director of Legal Services, and
that the agreement is registered in the Land Title Office to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
Note to Applicant: The agreement must be signed by the owner
and any party with a financial charge on the title to give priority.
The purpose of the agreement is to secure the protection of the
heritage building during and after construction and ensure its
rehabilitation in a timely manner consistent with a conservation
plan.
11. Provision of commemorative measures to tell the story of the
importance of Harry Rankin and the Rankin family to the history of
Vancouver, as linked to the existing Rankin home at 3560-3570
Hull Street.
Sustainability
12. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design & Sustainability and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary that require the owner to report energy
use data, on an aggregated basis, for the building as a whole and
for certain common areas and building systems. Such agreement
or agreements will also provide for the hiring of a qualified service
provider to assist the owner for a minimum of three years in
collecting and submitting energy use data to the City.
Environmental Contamination

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 22
13. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to the enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Subdivision
By-law generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018,

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 23
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th
Avenue.
C. THAT Council add the Rosenberg Residence (the “heritage building”) at 2088 East
20th Avenue [Lot 2, Block 16, District Lot 195, Plan 11972] to the Vancouver Heritage
Register in the “C” evaluation category.
D. THAT the heritage designation of the heritage building’s exterior at 2088 East 20th
Avenue [Lot 2, Block 16, District Lot 195, Plan 11972] as protected heritage property,
generally as set out in Appendix D of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue”, be
approved.
E. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning, the heritage designation and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Heritage Designation and Housing
Agreement By-laws for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law
contemplated by this report, subject to such terms and conditions as may be
required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
F. THAT A through E above, be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03137)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote due to Conflict of Interest)

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 11, 2018 24
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
1. A By-law to amend the Zoning and Development By-law regarding a new Retail Use -
Cannabis Store (By-law No. 12167)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 8:43 pm.
* * * * *