PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 10 AND 12, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 10, 2018, at 6:11 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the meeting recessed and
reconvened on Thursday, July 12, 2018, at 6:12 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
ABSENT: Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Medical Leave - July 10, 2018)
Councillor Kerry Jang (Civic Business - July 12, 2018)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 2
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Heritage and Zoning and Development
By-law.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillors De Genova and Stevenson absent for the vote)
(Councillor Ball absent on Medical Leave for this item on July 10, 2018)
1. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 3655 West 3rd Avenue (Fraser-Strauss House)
An application by Andrew Fielding was considered as follows:
Summary: To designate the exterior of the existing building at 3655 West 3rd Avenue
(Fraser-Strauss House), which is listed on the Vancouver Heritage Register in
the ‘C’ evaluation category, as protected heritage property.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was scheduled for public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 6:17 pm on July 10, 2018.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law
to designate the exterior of the existing building at 3655 West 3rd Avenue [PID:
015-43-3579; Lot21, Block 15, District Lot 540, Plan 229 (the “site”)], known as
the Fraser-Strauss House (the “heritage building”), which is listed on the

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 3
Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category, as protected heritage
property.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03119)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
(Councillor Ball absent on Medical Leave for this item on July 10, 2018)
2. REZONING: 8444-8480 Oak Street
An application by AVRP Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 8444-8480 Oak Street from RT-2 (Two-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
six-storey residential building containing a total of 40 market residential units.
A height of 21.3 m (70 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.50 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Rohana Rezel spoke in favour of the application on the condition that presales are offered to
local residents first.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 6:26 pm, on July 10, 2018.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 4
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by AVRP Architecture Inc., on behalf of Shinbound
Holdings Inc., the registered owner, to rezone 8444-8480 Oak Street [Lots K-N,
Except the East 10 Feet and the West 7 Feet, Now Highways of Lot 32, Block B,
District Lots 319, 323 and 324, Plan 2010; PIDs: 014-110-342, 007-461-861,
014-110- 555, 014-110-571, respectively], from RT-2 (Two-Family Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 0.75 to 2.50 and to increase the height from 9.2 m (30 ft.)
to 21.3 m (70 ft.), to permit the development of a six-storey residential building
containing a total of 40 market residential units, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
8444-8480 Oak Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by AVRP Architecture Inc., on behalf of
Shinbound Holdings Inc. and stamped “Received Planning &
Development Services, September 15, 2017”, provided that the Director
of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of development when
approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to the approval of Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to minimize the undercut on the north, south,
and east sides of the building to improve the daylight of the ground
floor units.
Note to Applicant: This may also contribute to more
ground-oriented units with direct access to the street, lane, and
mid-block pedestrian walkway.
2. Design development to reduce the apparent massing resulting from
the corner enclosed balconies.
Note to Applicant: The building width is 107 ft., which is slightly

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 5
longer than the building width suggested in the Plan. This
refinement will ensure no greater increase in building width and
bulk as viewed from the street.
3. Design development to increase the outdoor amenity space on the
roof deck.
Note to Applicant: An increase is sought by providing an
approximately 1,000 sq. ft. roof deck outdoor amenity space. The
intent is to provide overall outdoor amenity space no less than
1,400 sq. ft. This can be achieved in one or more locations. This
condition may result in a reduction of the private patio areas or
mechanical area on the roof.
4. Design development to improve the identity and distinctiveness of
the main entrance of the building.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to create an inviting residential
entrance and contribute to pedestrian visual interest and
interaction. It may be achieved by reducing the notch depth at the
entrance door and developing distinguished architectural
expression for the entrance canopy.
5. Design development to the landscaping, planter, and retaining wall
of the site edges to ensure a pedestrian-friendly interface at the
street, lane, and mid-block pedestrian connection.
Note to Applicant: Avoid excessive height of retaining wall and
provide an outboard landscape to reduce the exposure of the
retaining wall. Explore solutions to limit the height of the retaining
wall of the planters while accommodating proposed trees above the
parkade structure.
6. Design development to orient primary living spaces to face the
street or lane to be better compliant with the HAD requirement.
7. Design development to coordinate the two halves of the mid-block
connection should be included in the Development Permit
drawings.
8. The proposed unit mix, including 19 one-bedroom units (47%),
12 two-bedroom units (30%), and nine three-bedroom units (23%),
is to be included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be suitable for
families with children.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 6
9. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the building
is encouraged in the application for a development permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
10. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
11. Integration of grades, retaining walls, walkways and structural
design with the architecture to ensure adequate soil volumes.
Note to Applicant: Soil depths should exceed BCLNA Landscape
Standard. To avoid raised planters above grade, at the perimeter
of the building angle the corner of the underground slab downward
(1 m across and 1.2 m down) to maximize contiguous soil
volumes. Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab should
be designed to maximize soil depths.
12. Resolution of the conflict with the proposed development and tree
#OS01.
Note to Applicant: The submitted arborist report defers certainty in
regard to the offsite neighbour tree. It is located very near to the
property line and excavation line. It will be very challenging to
retain the tree without design development to accommodate the
roots and canopy setbacks. Tree removal may be considered with
a written neighbour consent letter. In the event the neighbour’s
consent cannot be given, design development must occur to retain
the tree in a safe and responsible manner. Further comments may
be outstanding.
13. Design development to locate, integrate, and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and public
realm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 7
14. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at 1/8”:1’ scale minimum.
The Plant list should include the common and botanical name,
size, and quantity of all existing/proposed plant material. Plant
material should be clearly illustrated on the Plan and keyed to the
Plant List. The landscape plan should include the public realm
treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed street trees,
adjoining walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista transformers
and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire hydrants.
15. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4 in. scale) through common open spaces,
semi-private patio areas, and the public realm.
Note to Applicant: In tree areas, the sections should illustrate the
slab design and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree
canopy, and any associated landscaping. For private patios and
amenity areas, illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter
sizes (inside dimension), soil, root ball, retaining walls, steps,
patios and portions of the adjacent building, such as residential
units or amenity rooms.
16. Provision of plan details and documentation/calculations that
support achievement of LEED storm water credit(s) and integrated
rainwater management, including absorbent landscapes, soil
volumes, and detention systems.
Note to Applicant: Landscape related solutions and detention
systems should be shown on the plan. The LEED consultant
should provide detailed calculations to describe how the various
best management practices contributed to the quality and quantity
targets.
17. Provision of a “Tree Management Plan”.
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management
plan become the primary document for tree removal/protection
related matters. The landscape architectural tree management
plan provides useful information with regard to important cross
sections and other landscape design elements. While both
documents should be made consistent and submitted at large
scale with the revised submission package, the landscape
architect’s version should change its title label to differentiate it
from the arborist tree plan.
18. Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include
signatures by the owner, contractor, and arborist.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 8
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties are
aware of the roles and responsibilities and that the project is on
track to satisfy the steps and recommendations outlined by the
arborist. For example, advanced planning will be needed to
ensure that certain works, such as site supervision checkpoints,
are coordinated.
19. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees are to be shown on the
development permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of
the building permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604.871.6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604.257.8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final
spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards, and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall
be 8 feet long and 18 inches in depth. Planting depth of root ball
must be below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection
after tree planting completion".
20. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose
bibs for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: Hose bibs are to encourage patio gardening
and hand watering in amenity decks. Any limitations to the
installation of hose bibs on private decks should be brought to the
attention of staff in the written response.
21. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Consider CPTED principles and avoid any
lighting that can cause glare to residential uses.
Sustainability
22. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7,
2017), including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions
Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero
emissions standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or
Low Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low
Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 9
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
23. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing buildings
on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition waste
(excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
Engineering
24. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
25. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
26. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
27. The drawings have measured the Oak Street Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) from the front of the curb (street side), this
dimension must be accurately measured from the back of curb
(site side) and clearly indicated on the plans with the building

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 10
setback adjusted accordingly.
28. Correctly label and dimension the 4.27 m SRW line. The
dimension labeling and location of the SRW are incorrectly stated.
29. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room and note on drawings.
30. Provision of a plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
31. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from the
location shown without reliance of the lane for extended bin
storage. If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane
32. Please place the following statements on the Landscape Plan:
This plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted
for review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to
the start of any construction proposed for public property. No work
on public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.” “Installation of
parking regulatory signage on Oak Street adjacent the site to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.”
33. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to Engineering for
review.
34. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Number, dimension and label all parking spaces.
(ii) Dimension overall distance of parking spaces located
adjacent to walls to confirm that the additional width is
provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 11
(iii) Provision of columns, column dimensions, and column
setbacks to be shown on the drawings.
(iv) Provision of 6.6 m (21 ft. 8 in.) wide maneuvering aisles.
Dimensions to be shown on drawings.
(v) Provision of additional information on the drawings
showing dimensions and vertical clearance for the
overhead security gate.
(vi) Provision of additional dimensions on the section drawings
showing vertical clearance within the parking levels.
Ensure adequate vertical clearance is provided for
mechanical projections, utilities and other services.
(vii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints and at all entrances clearly
showing the entries meet City building grades.
(viii) Additional design elevations are required to confirm the
slope and crossfall within the parking levels do not exceed
the requirements. Slope and crossfall to be shown on the
drawings.
(ix) 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for access and
maneuvering to all disability spaces and must be noted on
the drawings.
(x) Dimension the access aisle width in the bicycle storage
rooms.
(xi) Dimension the size of the bicycle spaces.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Sustainability and Urban Design, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots K, L, M and N, all Except the West 7 Feet
and the East 10 Feet, Now Highways, of Lot 32, Block B, District
Lots 319, 323 and 324, Plan 2010 to create a single parcel.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 12
2. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) on Oak Street adjacent the site to achieve a
4.27 m (14 ft.) distance from the back of the existing City curb to
the building face. The SRW will be free of any encumbrance at
grade such as structure, stairs, door swing, parkade vents, walls
etc. but the SRW will accommodate portions of P1 & P2 parking
within the agreement.
3. Provision of a 3.66 m (12 ft.) wide Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW)
adjacent the north end of the site for a mid-block pedestrian
connection between Oak Street and the lane.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of upgraded sewers as follows:
a. Separate 166 metres of 200 mm combined sewer
and replace with 300-375 mm storm sewer and
200-250 mm sanitary sewer on Oak Street from
manhole adjacent site (MH-FJCL8W) to West 70th
Avenue.
b. Separate 100 metres of combined sewer to
900 mm storm and 300 mm sanitary sewer on West
70th Avenue from Oak Street to Shaughnessy
Street.
c. The sewer upgrading costs borne by this project
may be reduced should benefiting nearby
development proceed concurrently with this project

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 13
with the said reduction to be determined at the sole
discretion of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
d. In addition the post-development flow rate
discharged to the sewer shall be no greater than
the 10 year pre-development flow rate.
e. The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014
IDF curves where-as the post development
estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF curves to
account for climate change.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(iv) Relocation or removal of the existing wood pole in the lane
that conflicts with parking access. Written confirmation
from all utility companies that use the pole including any
City services is required. Should the pole relocation result
in the need to provide kiosks, cabinets transformers or
other electrical infrastructure to accommodate the pole
relocation then space on site is to be provided, appropriate
legal arrangements will be required should on-site space
be necessary.
(v) Provision of a new 1.83 m (6 ft.) sod grass front boulevard
and 2.44 m (8 ft.) light broom finish saw cut concrete
sidewalk on Oak Street adjacent the site.
(vi) Provision of a new 1.53 m (5 ft.) light broom finish saw cut
concrete sidewalk adjacent the north property line of the
site connecting the sidewalk on Oak Street to the lane. The
remaining 7 ft. of the SRW is intended for public realm
amenities including benches, landscape and pedestrian
lighting.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 14
(vii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current LED standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(viii) Provision of new curb return and improved curb ramps at
the southeast corner of Oak Street & 67th Avenue.
(ix) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Green Infrastructure
6. Provision of a Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details
how the rainwater management system meets the Citywide
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP) requirements for
retention, cleaning and safe conveyance, prepared by a subject
matter expert (Engineer), subject to review, which will address the
following:
(i) In this instance of a zero lot line design, staff will consider:
a. The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
retention volume for runoff reduction instead of
infiltration volume;
b. Retention can be achieved through rainwater
reuse, in green roofs and planter boxes, or slow
release detention such as lined permeable

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 15
pavement systems; and
c. The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
water quality volume to be treated.
(ii) Staff do not accept the principle that distinct site areas that
have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way
compensate for those areas of the site that are impervious,
without the first and second 24 mm of runoff being directed
towards these absorbent areas, and this being clearly
demonstrated. The subsequent safe conveyance of rainfall
surpassing 48 mm in 24 hours will also need to be
demonstrated.
a. The drawings indicate that much of the growing
medium is above the level of adjacent paving. In
such cases staff do not accept that these elevated
growing medium volumes contribute to the storage
and/or treatment of rainwater that has been
directed towards these areas from adjacent
surfaces.
b. The drawings do not show the bioswales that are
proposed as a water treatment feature along the
north perimeter of the site. The applicant must
clearly demonstrate that any treatment
facility/bioswale in this location will not affect
neighbouring buildings.
(iii) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from
impermeable surfaces into planted or other
storage/treatment areas.
(iv) Provide outline area/volume calculations to support the
overall rainwater management strategy. Include the area
measurement for all pervious/impervious areas and
demonstrate that each of the receiving infiltration/treatment
areas can accommodate the proposed runoff volumes
without being inundated.
(v) Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will be
considered as rainwater retention/runoff reduction and
water quality practices.
a. Planters designed as flow-through planters can be
used to meet the treatment volume requirement.
b. Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout
planted areas and shallow ponding depth within the

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 16
planted areas as part of the calculations.
(vi) The building/public realm should be designed to show
leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building
systems including an integrative approach to rainwater
management to minimize potable water use and
encourage the use of alternative water sources in areas
such as toilet flushing and irrigation.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will enter into such legal
agreements with the City, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services, to ensure
on-going operations of certain stormwater storage,
rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
Sustainability
7. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Environmental Contamination
8. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services, and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 17
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been issued to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
9. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $1,573,759
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be made
prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services. The $1,573,759 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $786,879 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Marpole area;
(ii) $708,192 (45%) toward childcare and community facilities
in and around the Marpole area;
(iii) $78,688 (5%) to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to
enable heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the city.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate city official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 18
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03120)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
(Councillor Ball absent on Medical Leave for this item on July 10, 2018)
3. REZONING: 2109 West 35th Avenue
An application by b Squared Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 2109 West 35th Avenue from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling) District
to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of
a three-storey residential building containing a total of 12 for-profit affordable
rental units. A height of 11.09 metres (36.38 feet) and a floor space ratio
(FSR) of 0.86 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation on the application to respond
to questions previously asked.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 5 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 7 pieces in opposition to the application;
• 2 pieces of correspondence related to other aspects of the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 19
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application:
Stuart Smith spoke in support of the application.
Nathalie Baker spoke in opposition to the application.
Rohana Rezel spoke to other aspects of the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 6:53 pm, on July 10, 2018.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application by b Squared Architecture Inc., on behalf of Tamanna
Concept Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 2109 West 35th Avenue [Lot 7 of
Lot 3 Blk 19, DL 526, Plan 4855; PID 011-298-766] from RS-5 (One-Family
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the
floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 0.86 FSR and the height from 10.70 m to
11.09 m to permit the development of a three-storey residential building
containing a total of 12 for-profit affordable rental units, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
2109 West 35th Avenue”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by b Squared Architecture Inc., on behalf
of Tamanna Concept Ltd., and stamped “Received Planning &
Development Services (Rezoning Centre), November 9, 2017”, provided
that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application of by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 20
Urban Design
1. Design development to incorporate parkade exit stairs inside the
building massing.
Note to Applicant: This condition may result in reduction in floor
space, and may be achieved by moving the northern stair east,
shifting the parkade wall to the setback line, and reconfiguring the
south stairs within the southwest corner at parking stall #1.
2. Design development to retain existing mature trees around
building, including those located within the road widening
dedication.
Note to Applicant: Setbacks may need to be adjusted. Existing
City street trees must not be compromised by exit stairs and
surface parking.
3. Design development to improve functionality of site servicing at
the lane, as follows:
(i) Relocate disability parking stall;
(ii) Relocate Pad Mounted Transformer (PMT);
(iii) Enclose recycling and garbage and access from inside the
site; and
(iv) Incorporate hard and soft landscaping to give a better
sense of entry.
Note to Applicant: This could be achieved by relocating the
surface parking adjacent to the walkway and treating this as a
courtyard space with special paving, adjacent to a screened and
enclosed garbage area immediately east, and shifting the PMT
furthest east away from view.
4. Design Development of site grading and configuration of entry
stairs along east facade to better relate to the streetscape.
Note to Applicant: This may be achieved by terracing, stepped
landscaping, enclosing stair bases, incorporating landings, turning
some taller stairs parallel to the building face, partially separating
grouped stairs, as well as relocating entries and lower level
windows if necessary.
5. Consideration to improve expression and neighbourliness as per
RS-5 Guidelines, as follows:
(i) Further study of materials, colour, character and detailing;
(ii) Address roof deck overview of neighbour; and
(iii) Resolve retaining wall treatment.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 21
Note to Applicant: Consider using a darker base, lighter walls
above, thinner fascia profiles, higher quality cladding materials
including wood trims, and other means to reinforce residential
character. Consider shifting rooftop patios east to lessen overview
of adjacent residence, especially units #10 and #11. Consider
special treatment for large exposed concrete retaining walls along
vehicular ramp and around site.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
7. Design development to the front yard public-private realm
treatment to be pedestrian friendly and visually open.
8. Provision of the following in regard to the tree retention strategy
(applicable to trees #72-74, 59-64, offsite trees # A, B, C ):
(i) An addendum arborist report that confirms the arborist has
reviewed and concurs with the most recent architectural
and landscape drawings in terms of what was understood
to be reasonable design measures within known site
conditions and acceptable tolerances to impacts. Any
above or below grade design conflicts must be brought to
the attention of the City and the applicant at earliest
convenience may be subject to further design
development. Provide specific recommendations that
inform private and public realm landscape design and
methods for tree retention. Include any construction
limitations such as the location of construction storage
materials, temporary structures, utility conflicts, site
access, development phasing and temporary irrigation
requirements;
(ii) Landscape Plan revisions to be informed by the revised
arborist report with specific recommendations for optimal
tree retention;
(iii) Reductions in the amount of re-landscape activity
proposed within the dripline of trees;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 22
Note to Applicant: All site disturbance associated with soft
and hardscaping in proximity to the trees should be
relocated outside the radial dripline, to the greatest extent
practicable. There should be none or very limited soil
disturbance proposed in the driplines and a band of bark
mulch of at least 3x diameter of each tree trunk. Further
comments may be outstanding at time of development
permit review.
(iv) Further coordination with City staff and the project arborist
at the development permit stage to protect tree roots
associated with public realm improvements;
Note to Applicant: This will require further attention by the
landscape architect and project arborist to anticipate and
reduce unnecessary root disturbances, wherever possible.
Retention of the existing public sidewalk/boulevard in the
critical root zone may be necessary.
Coordination will be needed with City staff, design team
and project arborist for the final public realm landscape
design submitted for development permit and construction
phase.
(v) Accurate illustrations, notations, dimensions on the
appropriate plans and sections (engineer, architectural and
landscape) to show all proposed utility locations, limit of
excavation, grading and re-landscaping in any tree
protection zones. Further comments may be forthcoming to
mitigate impacts, such as utility relocations, for example;
(vi) Provision of a Tree Management Plan;
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree
management plan become the primary document for tree
removal/ protection related matters. The landscape
architectural tree management plan provides useful
information with regard to important cross sections and
other landscape design elements. While both documents
should be made consistent and submitted at large scale
with the revised submission package, the landscape
architects version should change its title label to
differentiate it from the arborist tree plan.
(vii) Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include
signatures by the owner, contractor and arborist;
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties
are aware of the roles and responsibilities and that the

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 23
project is on track to satisfy the steps and
recommendations outlined by the arborist. For example,
advanced planning will be needed to ensure that certain
works, such as site supervision checkpoints, are
coordinated.
9. Refinements to the Landscape Plan, as follows:
(i) Provision of additional new trees on private property to the
perimeter of the building;
(ii) Extension of the front yard foundation planting to the future
road dedication line;
(iii) Provision of maximized tree growing medium (topsoil) and
planting depths for tree and shrub planters to ensure long
term viability of the landscape;
(iv) Explore drought tolerant landscape plantings that will
reduce or negate the need for irrigation (Note: the
landscape planting environment benefits from access to
natural continuous soils and water table. Every effort
should be made to minimize irrigation requirements or limit
to a 2 year establishment period).
10. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan.
Note to Applicant: The Landscape Plan should include the project
site and the public realm to the street curb and a minimum 1:100
or 1/8” scale. Illustrate proposed plant materials (with common
and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities), and hardscaping
such as paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and
vertical structures. Plants listed in a Plant List should be clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan.
11. Provision of a detailed grading plan.
12. Provision of sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to
public realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated
private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building façade,
as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences and
planters. The location of the underground parking slab should be
included in the section.
13. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 24
Note to Applicant: This is a standard condition. Coordinate further
with Engineering staff. New street trees to be shown on the
development permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of
the building permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604.871.6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604.257.8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements.
Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final spacing, quantity
and tree species to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services. New trees must be of good standard,
minimum 6cm caliper, and installed with approved root barriers,
tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8 feet long
and 18 inches in. Planting depth of root ball must be below
sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree planting
completion".
14. Clarification of any irrigation requirements for all planted areas.
Note to Applicant: Where irrigation is proposed, provide a partial
irrigation plan showing hose bib and automatic irrigation stub-out
locations. There should be accompanying written notes on the
same plan and/or landscape plan describing the intent and/or
standards of irrigation.
15. Provision of a Landscape Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings. All existing light poles should be shown.
Engineering Services
16. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction (i.e.
consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent private
property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days
lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab pour that
requires additional street use beyond the already identified project
street use permissions.
17. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
18. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 25
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
19. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show
containers and toters on plans for recycling and garbage needs
and refer to the Engineering garbage and recycling storage facility
design supplement for recommended dimensions and quantities
of bins.
Note to Applicant: Pick up operations should not rely on bins being
stored on the street or lane for pick-up. Bins are to be returned to
storage areas immediately after emptying.
20. A review of the existing street tree locations and scale/size of tree
to determine if the proposed building location will have a negative
impact on retention of the trees and a review to determine a
construction methodology that will ensure the protection of the
trees and tree canopies during the construction period and post
occupancy.
21. Please place the following statement on the Landscape Plan:
“This plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted
for review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to
the start of any construction proposed for public property. No work
on public property may begin until such plans receive
“For Construction” approval and related permits are issued.
Please contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
Note to Applicant: Please update the Landscape and/or Site Plan
to reflect the public realm changes including all of the off-site
improvements sought for this rezoning, where a design or detail is
not available please make note of the improvement on the Site
and/or Landscape Plans. Please submit a copy of the updated
plan to engineering for review.
Note to Applicant: Add note to Landscape Plans “Installation of
parking regulatory signage on Arbutus Street, the lane, and 35th
Avenue adjacent the site to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 26
22. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of column sizes, and column setback dimensions
to be shown on the drawings.
(ii) Provision of additional dimensions on the section drawings
showing vertical clearance within the parking levels.
Ensure adequate vertical clearance is provided for
mechanical projections, utilities and other services.
(iii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints and at all entrances.
(iv) Design development to improve access and
maneuverability from the parking ramp leading into the
parkade. Clarify operation of ramp entry, additional width
may be required. Provide turning tracks with DP
submission.
(v) Provision of a warning system for the single ramp – a
qualified transportation engineer must provide details on
the system and locations of all lights, signs and detection
devices on the plans.
(vi) Parking space number 10 requires adjustment so that the
entire space is adjacent the maneuvering aisle.
(vii) Provision of additional information showing the access
route for the accessible space number 13 at grade.
(viii) Additional design elevations are required to confirm the
slope and cross-fall within the parking levels do not exceed
the requirements. Slope and cross-fall to be shown on the
drawings.
(ix) Dimension the size of the bicycle spaces in the bike room.
(x) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle room and note on
drawings.
(xi) Provision of a plan showing the access route from the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 27
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Parking and Loading Design
Guidelines at the following link:
http://vancouver.ca/home-property-development/parking-policies-
guidelines.aspx
Sustainability
23. All buildings in the development shall meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended to
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
the development is on track to achieve the above requirements at
each stage of permit. For more detail on the above requirements
and what must be submitted at each stage, refer to the most
recent Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings – Process and
Requirements (amended April 28, 2017 or later) bulletin.
Housing
24. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
secured market rental housing is being provided as part of the City
of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and location to be
approved by the City.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Dedication of the easterly 5.182 m (17 ft.) of the site (the building
line area) for road purposes. Deletion of all encroachments shown
to extend over the dedication line including the proposed walls,
fences, gates and gate swings, landscape, etc.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 28
Note to Applicant: A Subdivision Plan and application to the
Subdivision and Strata Group is required to effect the dedication.
For general information see the subdivision website at:
http://vancouver.ca/home- property-development/apply-to-
subdivide-or-join-properties.aspx. Further, note some low planting
may be considered and should be reflected in the Landscape Plan
provided at the development permit stage.
2. Arrangements should be made for release of the secondary suite
covenant (CA5171423) registered as a condition of DB452341 in
2016 for an earlier proposal by the same owner.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. Based on an estimate of the
development’s water demands, the water system is
inadequate to service the development. The following
upgrade is required:
a. Upgrade approximately 140 m of water main on
Arbutus Street, from 34th Avenue to 35th Avenue.
b. Supply project details including confirmed average
day domestic water demands, peak hour domestic
water demands, and fire flow calculations based on
the Fire Underwriter’s Survey’s document, Water
Supply for Public Fire Protection to confirm the
water system analysis. Once confirmed fire flows
are submitted, the City will re-evaluate this
condition to confirm whether it still applies.
(ii) Upgrade approximately 37 m of existing combined sewer
to 250 mm storm sewer main and 200 mm sanitary sewer
main in the lane north of West 35th Avenue from the
proposed development to the 600 mm diameter combined
sewer in Ravine Park.
a. The lengths and diameters of these improvements
are approximate and subject to detailed design by
the developer’s engineer.
b. The developer’s engineer is to submit a design

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 29
brief, calculations and/or model, and design
drawings to the City. Submittals to be reviewed and
accepted by the City Engineer.
c. Development to be serviced to the proposed
250 mm STM and 200 mm SAN sewers in the lane
north of West 35th Avenue.
d. The post development flow rate discharged to the
sewer shall be no greater than the pre-development
flow rate discharged to the sewer, using the 5 year
storm event. The pre-development estimate shall
utilize the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post
development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(iv) Provision of curb ramps at the northwest corner of
Arbutus Street and 35th Avenue.
(v) Provision of measures to restrict left turns out of the lane
onto Arbutus Street.
(vi) Provision of a new 1.83 m (6 ft.) light broom finish saw cut
concrete sidewalk and a 1.83 m (6 ft.) sod grass front
boulevard on Arbutus Street adjacent the site including
curb ramps. Note that the front boulevard width may need
to be adjusted at the southern end of the site if all the
existing trees are retained.
(vii) Provision of a new 1.83 m (6 ft.) light broom finish saw cut
concrete sidewalk on West 35th Avenue and retention of
the existing front boulevard width adjacent the site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 30
(viii) Provision of lane re-paving and removal of obstructions
within the lane and at the lane entrance to facilitate safe
access to and from Arbutus Street.
(ix) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing including
new curb returns on both sides of the lane.
(x) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement securing all
residential units as market rental housing units for the longer of 60
years or the life of the building, subject to the following additional
conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 31
monthly rent for each rental unit when the Housing
Agreement is entered into and again prior to Development
Permit issuance;
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each unit
type will be at or below the following proposed starting
rents subject to adjustment as contemplated by the
Vancouver Development Cost Levy-By-law:
Unit Type 2109 West 35th Avenue
Proposed Average Starting
Rents
1-bedroom $1,903
3-bedroom $3,702
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services, that reflects the agreed initial monthly
rents as of occupancy in order to address potential
changes in unit mix and/or sizes between the rezoning and
development permit issuance, and to allow for the rents to
be increased annually from the time of the public hearing
to initial occupancy, as per the maximum increases
authorized by the Vancouver Development Cost Levy
By-law; and
(vii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City, by by-law, enacted
pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 32
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 5, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2109 West 35th Avenue”.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing Agreement has
been agreed to and signed by the applicant and its mortgagee(s) and prior to
enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by the same report, subject to such
terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Community Services.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and the
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 33
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03121)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
(Councillor Ball absent on Medical Leave for this item on July 10, 2018)
4. REZONING: 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue
At 7:21 pm, Councillor Bremner declared conflict of interest on this matter as he has a personal
relationship with a member of the applicant team. He left the meeting and did not return until the
completion of the decision on the item.
An application by Wensley Architecture Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue from RS-1
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District
to permit the development of 3½-storey townhouses and a four-storey
apartment building, along with the retention, relocation, designation and
protection of a heritage home at 2088 East 20th Avenue, for a combined total
of 69 secured market rental housing units. A maximum height of 12.8 m
(42 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 1.58 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a presentation on the application.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 27 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 7 pieces of correspondence in opposition of the application, and 2 petitions in opposition
with a total of 55 signatures;
• 2 pieces of correspondence related to other aspects of the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 34
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Jacqueline Von Rumel
Jack Rumel
Chung K Soh
Graham Cook
Mike Senior
Tyler Bryant
Graham Porteous
Brian Bell
Steven Tick
Craig Jorgensen
Rebecca Heartly
Devon Hussack
Stuart Smith
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Jay Hamburger
John Newman
Craig McKimm
Mark Robinson
Margaret Sutherland
Faune Johnson
David DeVisser
Deborah Hayes
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:44 pm on July 10, 2018.
Applicant Closing Comments
The applicant provided closing remarks.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 35
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT discussion and decision on the application entitled “REZONING: 3560-3570 Hull
Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue”, be referred to the Regular Council meeting
following the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on Wednesday,
July 11, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent on Medical Leave for this item on July 10, 2018)
(Councillor Bremner absent due to conflict of interest)
5. REZONING: 777 Pacific Boulevard – Sub-area 10C (1 Robson Street)
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, was
considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone a portion of 777 Pacific Boulevard (1 Robson Street) – Northeast
False Creek Sub-area 10C from BCPED (BC Place/Expo District) to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
mixed-use building with commercial and residential uses. The proposal is for
a maximum floor area of 37,161 sq. m (400,000 sq. ft.) and a maximum
building height of up to 121.9 m (400 ft.). The application is being considered
under the Northeast False Creek Plan.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a presentation on the application.
Applicant Comments
The Applicant provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 9 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 36
• 163 pieces of correspondence in opposition of the application, and 1 petition in
opposition with a total of 643 signatures;
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other aspects of the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, Councilor Bremner declared conflict of interest on this item as
his employer has been contracted by the architect for this development. He left the Chamber at
9:29 pm and did not return for the remainder of the meeting on July 10, 2018.
* * * * *
Dyllan Kaufmann spoke in support of the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Stephen Bohus
John Shayler
Melody Ma
Janice Wong
Alex de Figueiredo
Renee de St. Croix
Fern Jeffries
Bryan Buraga
Patsy Mcmillan
David Chen
Veronika Metchie
Christian Steckler
Debbie Gosselin
Michael Tan
John Cassidy
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 10:18 pm, on July 10, 2018.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 37
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, the following was moved:
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT under section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law Council suspend section 2.3 (e) of the
Procedure By-law and continue the meeting past 10 pm in order to finish hearing
speakers on this item.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Ball absent on Medical Leave for this item on July 10, 2018)
(Councillor Bremner absent due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT discussion and decision on item 5, entitled “REZONING: 777 Pacific Boulevard –
Sub-area 10C (1 Robson Street)”, be referred to the Regular Council meeting on
July 24, 2018, at 2 pm, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent on Medical Leave for this item on July 10, 2018)
(Councillor Bremner absent due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 10:22 pm and reconvened at 6:12 pm on Thursday, July 12, 2018.
* * * * *
6. REZONING: 750-772 Pacific Boulevard – Northeast False Creek Sub-area 6B
(Plaza of Nations)
An application by James KM Cheng Architects Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (349) (Comprehensive Development) District for
750-772 Pacific Boulevard to permit the development of a variety of
mixed-use terracing buildings up to 30 storeys in height, which include market
residential units, commercial uses, social housing, civic facilities (including a
community centre, ice rink, a 69-space childcare facility and music

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 38
presentation centre), public plazas, public rooftop terraces and a seawall. The
application is being considered under the Northeast False Creek Plan.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a presentation on the application and
responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
The applicant provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 116 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 3 pieces of correspondence in opposition of the application;
• 4 pieces of correspondence related to other aspects of the application.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Russell Bennett
David Pay
Kathryn Sharp
Ralph Wettstein
Patsy McMillan
Dyllan Kaufmann
Veronika Metchie
Marina Hasselberg
Kevin Cartwright
Chris Kelley
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Renee de St. Croix
Ramona Manchulenko

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 39
Brent Toderian
Melody Ma
John Cassidy
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 8:19 pm, on July 12, 2018.
Applicant Closing Comments
The applicant provided closing remarks and responded to questions.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing remarks and responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by James KM Cheng Architects Inc., on behalf of Canadian
Metropolitan Properties Corp., to amend the CD-1 (349) (Comprehensive District)
By Law at 750 Pacific Boulevard [Lot 155 False Creek Plan 21425 and District
Lot 6352 Group 1 New Westminster District; PIDs 008-538-298 and 010-313-931
respectively], to permit a mixed-use development with commercial, residential,
community and civic uses, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 750-772 Pacific Boulevard
– Northeast False Creek Sub-area 6B (Plaza of Nations)”, be approved subject to
the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed preliminary form of development be approved by
Council in principle, generally as prepared by James KM Cheng
Architects Inc. on behalf of Canadian Metropolitan Properties, and
stamped “Received Planning Department, December 1, 2017” and
reference drawings received on April 4, 2018, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow alterations to this preliminary form of development
when approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b)
below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
Applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 40
Urban Design
Form of development and density
1. Design development to the massing of the west building of the
west block to create a more dynamic form and terracing pattern, to
reduce the massing at upper levels, and to improve the
relationship to the neighbouring building at Coopers Landing.
Note to Applicant: The ‘habitable topography’ concept of the
terraced forms in most areas of the proposed development
achieves a dynamic and organic composition through varied
patterns of stepping heights and projecting forms. The western
edge as currently proposed however, is rigidly patterned with
uniform steps and extensive massing at upper levels. Various
strategies including creating major breaks in building form,
reducing massing at upper levels, and introducing varied setbacks
and stepping patterns should be employed, as well as shifting
eastward at upper levels aligning with portions of the
Parq Vancouver building that obscure this portion of the view to
the stadium spires. Achieving the intent of this condition will
involve redistributing approximately 3,700 sq. m (40,000 sq. ft.) of
residential density. Noting that the form of development is tightly
tailored to achieve the principles of the Northeast False Creek
(NEFC) Plan, reduction in overall density may be required.
2. Design development to shape and pull back the upper levels of
the northeast corner of the east block to improve sunlight access
to Georgia Wharf at 4:00 pm at the Equinox.
Note to Applicant: Pulling back and shaping the leading edge of
the end of this building would open up further sunlight access to
Georgia Wharf at this time.
3. Design development to reflect in-process changes subsequent to
the application dated December 1, 2017, that includes a reduction
in the gross residential floor area to 149,109 sq. m (1,605,000 sq.
ft.) and the accommodation of the civic centre on a maximum of
three levels with full public access to the rooftop open space,.
4. Design development to bring each Rezoning Site sub-area
forward as a preliminary development permit application to ensure
coordination and optimized relationships between the varied
buildings that will comprise each block.
Note to Applicant: Composing blocks and frontages in a way that
facilitates participation of multiple architects to contribute to the
uniqueness of Northeast False Creek is part of the NEFC Urban
Design Principles. The draft Design Guidelines for the site begin to

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 41
articulate how this might be accomplished. The waterfront building
(Rezoning Site sub-area C) is a particular opportunity for this
given its visibility on the waterfront and the scale and form of the
elements that comprise the preliminary form of development.
5. Design development to further reflect the concept of bringing
greenery, gardens and other vegetation up the buildings in the
overall form of development, the landscape design, and the
sustainability strategies for the site.
Note to Applicant: The building designs must continue to evolve
with plans, sections, details, and strategies that support the extent
and diversity of trees and layered plantings, habitat, natural
corridors, and rainwater management elements integral to the
concept. See also Landscape Conditions (b)20 through (b)23 and
(b)25 and Engineering Conditions (b)96 and (b)97 and (c)21.
6. Design development to ensure that the underground structure is
designed to support significant, regularly spaced trees of scale
and type appropriate to the quality public realm and streetscape
envisioned.
Note to Applicant: Support for the underground parking extending
under the streets and many areas of the public realm is dependent
on the ability to deliver a quality streetscape with trees of
appropriate type and scale, planted “in-ground” conditions where
they may thrive and are not compromised by virtue of placement
over parking structure. See also Landscape Condition (b)21 and
(b)25.
7. Retain the unique architectural design and resulting floor layout for
the proposed development.
Note to Applicant: The unique architectural design was a key
factor in the pro forma analysis and resolution of the community
benefits offering. Should there be alterations to the elements of
the building design affect the premium cost items or increases the
sellable area, then the City may require the Applicant to pay an
additional cash Community Amenity Contribution (CAC), based on
the revised pro forma, prior to building permit issuance. See also
Condition (c)57.
Waterfront relationship
8. Design development to the waterfront plaza area to enhance the
flexibility to host performances engaging the water, steps, plaza,
and adjacent lower levels of the waterfront building.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 42
Note to Applicant: The Retail Curation Strategy required at
development permit application should aim to provide supportive
ground-floor uses in the waterfront building and align with the
Public Space Stewardship Strategy to support the overall goals of
the NEFC Plan for the Events and Entertainment District. The
waterfront building should be designed with the ability to open out
and connect interior spaces to the adjacent waterfront area. The
lower level terraces of the building should also be designed with
potential for enjoying events in the waterfront plaza area.
9. Design development to open out the lower level of the waterfront
building to enable pedestrian level views and connections to the
waterfront from the central plaza.
Note to Applicant: Consider pulling back the ground level of the
building while retaining cantilevered or supported levels above to
enable the waterfront building to achieve this while continuing to
relate to the waterfront steps and carrying the extension of
terracing up from the water level.
10. Design development to provide inviting and public connections to
upper level public spaces and rooftop terraces from the waterfront.
Note to Applicant: Highly visible and inviting access should be
provided from grade at the waterfront and at the community
centre, with bridging across the local street between the rooftop
terraces of the waterfront building and the community centre. A
combination of sculptural stairs/stepping terraces integrated into
the building design and clear and accessible elevator access
should be provided. See also Planning Condition (c)32.
11. Design development to ensure that on-water structures are
located, scaled and designed to enhance the experience of the
waterfront.
Note to Applicant: The desire for a unique, more active and
engaging waterfront as part of the Events and Entertainment
District is a guiding principle of the NEFC Plan. While restaurants
and other uses are encouraged on the water and at the water’s
edge, it is important that these elements are appropriately scaled,
located, and designed to ensure that on balance the public visual
connection and enjoyment of the water from the seawall is
maintained and enhanced. It is important that the water at the foot
of Georgia Street in the newly created inlet is not filled up and
obscured with structures. In particular, consideration should be
given to relocating the on-water building on the alignment of the
east/west seawall connection through the waterfront building to
open up views to the water along this important pedestrian and
cycling connection.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 43
12. Design development to provide two publicly accessible waterfront
docks or piers that extend into the waterfront at the turning points
of the proposed seawall. Secure public access to these waterfront
docks or piers with a statutory right-of-way (See also Engineering
Condition (c)15 and (c)17).
13. Design development in consultation and coordination with City
staff to locate and design the Seaside Greenway to be a
dedicated, safe and intuitive cycling facility off of the seawall along
the Georgia Wharf where possible.
Note to Applicant: In approving the NEFC Plan, Council directed
that the wharf area be designed to prioritize pedestrians,
accommodating a dedicated, safe and intuitive cycling facility off of
the seawall where possible. The current proposal succeeds in this
objective along the southern portion of the waterfront building, but
further work is required with City staff to determine the most
suitable route and design for the connection to the northeast, and
in relation to the future Georgia Plaza.
Strategies and Studies required prior to issuance of the first
development permit
14. Provide a conceptual Signage and Wayfinding Strategy that
outlines design intent for the area.
Note to Applicant: The proximity of the site to the stadia and the
Seawall, and the role of the site as part of the NEFC Events and
Entertainment District warrants particular consideration of the
approach to signage and wayfinding.
15. Provide a Lighting Strategy that outlines design intent for the area.
Note to Applicant: The proximity of the site to the Stadia and the
Seawall, and the role of the site as part of the NEFC Events and
Entertainment District presents an opportunity to create an
approach to lighting that supports and builds on the role of the
area.
16. Provide a Retail Curation Strategy that establishes a framework
for how the proposed retail and commercial services (such as
restaurants, cafes, bars, etc.) contribute to meeting the intent of
the NEFC Plan, including:
• size and scale of new CRU mix;
• how the new businesses will contribute to an active street and
public space edge condition;
• a mix of daytime and nighttime uses;
• opportunities for local hiring and procurement for inner-city
residents and businesses; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 44
• opportunities to align objectives of the Retail Curation Strategy
and the Public Space Stewardship Strategy as a means of
increasing the success, safety and enjoyment of new public
spaces and supporting local business opportunities.
17. Provide a Maintenance Strategy for Trees, Vegetation, Plantings
on upper level terraces and roof decks.
Note to Applicant: The strategy should include general conditions
relating to the physical provisions for trees and plantings, means
of access for maintenance both physically and legally (i.e. strata
provisions, covenants, etc.). See also Landscape Condition (b)21
and (b)30 and Sustainability Condition (b)45.
18. Provide an Acoustical Design Strategy prepared by professionals
in acoustic and mechanical engineering outlining approaches in
the building design to achieve the requirements under the
acoustics section of the proposed CD-1 By-law and draft Design
Guidelines with the development permit applications, meeting the
following performance criteria:
(a) Noise isolation design strategies and passive and/or
mechanical cooling;
(b) Mitigate event noise to achieve noise levels between 40
dBC and 50 dBC within the units during event periods; and
(c) Ensure summertime internal thermal comfort levels in line
with ASHRAE 55 v.2010 (with windows closed).
Note to Applicant: Building orientation and construction must
mitigate as much as possible events in major facilities and outdoor
spaces which will produce high levels of noise, particularly base
noise (dBC), on a regular basis, and for significant periods of time.
19. Provision of a Public Space Stewardship Plan that identifies how
the Applicant will implement, or partner to implement, the following
of each new public space for the life of the space, to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability, the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services and the General Manager of Engineering
Services:
(a) Ongoing management;
(b) Maintenance;
(c) Operations;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 45
(d) Safety/enforcement; and
(e) Access/loading.
Note to Applicant: Infrastructure should be provided to facilitate
event programming, including electricity, water, storage, access to
public washrooms, including arrangements to secure public
access.
Landscape Design
20. Design development to the sustainable site strategy and
landscape plan (for private property) to include the following:
(a) A robust, layered and diverse tree canopy planting plan at
the ground, rooftop, urban agriculture areas, as well as
public and private terraces levels;
(b) Extensive green roof coverage, wherever possible; and
(c) Explore opportunities for green walls, in appropriate
locations, rather than blank expanses of exterior wall.
21. Design development to the overall structural design to ensure
adequate soil volumes and planting depths for plants and trees,
intensive green roof terraces and balcony garden levels is
achieved.
Note to Applicant: To ensure the long term viability of planting on
slab and exposed upper roof conditions, soil depths must meet or
exceed BCLNA planting standards. The project should be
exemplary in this regard. At the ground level, avoid raised planter
walls that can impede pedestrian flow and fragment space. This
can be achieved by:
(a) Angling the slab at the junction of the outer wall and ceiling
of the underground parkade;
(b) Lowering the slab below plaza level to create contiguous
tree planting trenches such that the tree base is level with
the surrounding walking surfaces. The soil volume targets
should be considered at a minimum of 12 m3 (cylindrical
planters) or 16 m3 (rectangular planters), with 1 m depth
and 2 m radially (measured from the trunk). Private and
semi-private terraces should offer planter sizes and soil
volumes that can support long term tree health and canopy
cover;
(c) Soil cells, structural or enhanced native soils and
contiguous planting troughs should be explored;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 46
(d) Fully integrated planters should be provided, rather than
add-on movable planters;
(e) Avoid the necessity to mound soils to obtain minimum soil
depths; and
(f) Further details of a successful strategy will be required at
the development permit stage including, but not limited to
such issues as operational manuals and undertakings. See
Urban Design Condition (b)17.
22. Design development to reduce or eliminate potable water use in
the irrigation systems by using drought tolerant species, rainwater
harvesting methods and efficient irrigation technology for all
planted areas. See Engineering Conditions (b)97, (c)20 (c)21
regarding rainwater management.
Note to Applicant: Potable water may be considered for urban
agriculture areas and patios. Individual hose bibs should be
provided for all patios of 100 sq. ft. or greater in size, to encourage
patio gardening.
23. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscape treatment.
Note to Applicant: The landscape plan should include a planting
plan listing common and botanical name, size and quantity of all
existing/ proposed plant material. Plant material should be clearly
illustrated on the Landscape Plan and keyed to the Plant List.
Illustrate and clarify all outdoor surface/paving materials, site
furniture, bicycle racks, lighting, trash receptacles, hose bibs,
signs, retaining wall treatment, parking vents, at-grade utilities,
and public realm (building edge to the curb, street trees, lamp
posts, fire hydrants, sidewalk treatment).
24. Provision of spot elevations to all outdoor areas (including
top/bottom walls), including offsite context spot elevations in
proximity (public sidewalks, inner boulevards and lanes).
25. Provision of large-scale sections [typical] through landscaped
areas, including the ground oriented interface, the slab-patio-
planter relationship, street trees, the lane interface, common areas
and upper level planters.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree canopy, tree stem, outline of the root ball, voiding,
built up membrane and dimensions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 47
26. Provision of a vegetative surface area calculation overlay plan.
Note to Applicant: The plan should differentiate between extensive
and intensive green roof types and provide a percentage ratio of
soft and hard surface cover proposed.
27. Provision of a separate Tree Management Plan.
Note to Applicant: Provide a large scale tree plan that is separate
from the landscape plan sets. The plan should clearly illustrate all
trees to be removed and retained, including dimensioned tree
protection barriers for all trees, including street trees, and
important construction management directives drawn out of the
arborist report(s), where applicable.
28. Provision of a detailed Legacy Forest area management and
successional plan, to include tree retention, new plantings, short
and long term (5-10 year) planting/restoration measures and best
management practises for proposed work within the forest stand.
29. Provision of a revised, detailed arborist report, to include a
strategy to retain portions of the Legacy Forest and augmented
with forest succession recommendations.
Note to Applicant: The arborist report and rezoning proposal must
be congruent. The design of the Legacy Forest should be further
informed by an expanded arborist report and recommendations,
with special attention to soil improvement, mitigation of
compaction, testing, grade retention, rainwater management and
other disturbances proposed in critical root zones. Further
coordination to occur at the development permit stage.
30. Provision of a habitat plan, written rationale and a maintenance
specification, that includes site plantings, selection rationale,
anticipated environmental services, and appropriate maintenance
details.
Note to Applicant: See Sustainability Condition (b)45.
31. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of built
and landscape features intended to create a bird friendly design
for the protection, enhancement and creation of bird habitat and to
reduce potential “bird strike” in the development.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built and landscape features that may be applicable,
and provide a design rationale for the features noted. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentB.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 48
pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentC.
pdf
32. Locate site utilities and vents onto private property and integrated
discreetly into the building, avoiding landscaped and common
areas.
Sustainability
33. Meet the requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The Applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For phased developments,
it is expected that the individual development permits will meet the
requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings in effect
at the time of development permit application. For more detail on
the above requirements and what must be submitted at each
stage, refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements.
34. Design development to ensure that no habitable spaces or critical
infrastructure is located below a flood construction level of 4.8 m
GVRD datum (also known as CGVD28 datum) as prescribed in
Floodplain Standards and Requirements in the Vancouver
Building By-law, or the approved NEFC Plan or as per policy at
the time development application, whichever is higher.
Note to Applicant: The Building By-law recommends that large
sites adopt a flood construction level higher than the 4.6 m where
possible to enhance community resilience. Section 2.2.8.5 of the
By-law grants the Chief Building Officer the authority to increase
the flood construction level. As Sub-area 6B is part of a large site,
the flood construction level is set at 4.8 m or higher, according to
the policy at the time of development application.
35. Indicate on all relevant drawings the elevation of the “Flood
Management Zone” at 4.8 m GVRD datum along “The Ribbon”
and a future design strategy for an additional metre beyond the
predicted sea levels for 2100.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 49
Note to Applicant: Flood protection works should follow best
practices for urban settings, “Green Shores” approach where
feasible, seismic resilience and integrate appropriate flood
protection standards. The guidelines and requirements outlined by
the BC Inspector of Dikes can be considered current best design
practices.
36. Comply with all applicable Fisheries and Oceans Canada, the
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations & Rural
Development and the City of Vancouver requirements for marine
riparian and intertidal habitat restoration, in-water work and soil
remediation.
Note to Applicant: Ensure all permits and applications for work in
or about a watercourse is reviewed and approved, as appropriate,
by Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) and the Ministry of
Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural
Development regarding protection of fish habitat, wildlife and
habitat compensation.
37. Design development to ensure the flood protection works will meet
the structural and geotechnical requirements of the City to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: Geotechnical and coastal structural designs
must meet the technical guidelines to the satisfaction of General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Chief Building Official.
38. Design development to maximize habitat in the Flood
Management Zone with diverse, native and drought tolerant plant
choices above and below the tide lines. Select trees and plants to
support pollinators, birds, other fauna and beneficial
micro-organisms. Provide a description of site plantings that
includes selection rationale, anticipated environmental services,
and appropriate maintenance. See also Landscape Condition
(b)30.
Note to Applicant: Select plants that tolerate salty to brackish
intertidal conditions. Select materials (e.g. rocks, snags, woody
debris) and material sizes that support marine life Seek details
from the Park Board Biodiversity Strategy 2016 and a Qualified
Environmental Professional.
39. Illustrate the minimum 15 m setback in all applicable drawings as
per section 2.2.8.4 b) of Appendix A of the Flood Plain Standards
and Requirements.
Note to Applicant: Identify the “Natural Boundary” in setbacks and
include mean high and low water level in all applicable cross

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 50
sections.
40. Design the public streetscape to include two (2) standard City of
Vancouver frost-free (depth at site permitting) water fountains and
accompanying water service and sanitary service connection on
the north or east or west frontage (water fountain, including water
and sanitary service connection, to be provided by the City).
Note to Applicant: Frost-free service requires 6 ft. depth.
41. Design development to mitigate local urban heat island effect.
Indicate in drawings, with emphasis on the south and west
frontage, where shade and cooling structures and/or design for
the public and private realms will be placed or utilized.
42. Establish educational and technical support services to building
managers, strata, residents and businesses to help achieve
sustainability success.
Note to Applicant: Consider using a “Greencierge” to help align to
relevant City policies like Greenest City, Zero Waste 2040 and
Transportation 2040. Refer to NEFC Plan, section 11.5 for more
information on the “Greencierge”.
43. Provision of a Post-Occupancy Study (POS) three (3) years
following the issuance of an Occupancy Permit for each building
to the satisfaction of the Director of Sustainability.
Note to Applicant: Include data, tables, graphs and other analytic
tools to best illustrate sustainability trends in the development
including but not limited to: annual energy demand, building
systems efficiency, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, per capita
potable water use history, resident comfort, local food assets and
rainwater management systems.
44. Submit a letter of credit prior to the issuance of the development
permit to the General Manager of Engineering Services for
assurance of the POS completion.
45. Provision of a Building Operation Manual that documents
specifications, operations, and maintenance requirements of
systems including but not limited to: heating, ventilation, green
roofs, landscape, rainwater management and irrigation.
Note to Applicant: As per the Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements commissioning process,
the following items must be provided to the owner:
(a) The final Commissioning Report;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 51
(b) Operating and maintenance manuals;
(c) Training for operators or building managers; and
(d) A digital copy of the full Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
Manuals, a full PDF set of building as-built drawings, a
copy of the Building Information Modeling (BIM) files if
applicable, and the final building energy model file.
Food Assets
46. Design development to ensure that shared garden plots meet
requirements for size, number and ancillary uses as outlined the
Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large Developments.
Note to Applicant: A minimum of 30% of units that do not have
access to private outdoor space of more than 100 sq. ft., must
have access to shared garden plot.
47. Design development to ensure adequate space and facilities in
the central plaza for the provision of a successful farmers market
on site.
Note to Applicant: Facilities should include: adequate space for
30-60 vendors, access to hot and cold running water, sufficient
power, loading, storage and cover from weather.
48. Provision of composting facilities for organic waste associated
with shared garden plots.
49. Design development to align amenity spaces with kitchens to
adjacent rooftop gardens.
Note to Applicant: Encourage the use of kitchens for the
processing and sharing of harvested foods from the gardens and
use for communal dining and social space.
50. Provision of an on-site organics management facility to
accommodate the residential and retail organic waste.
Social Housing
51. Ensure no less than 50% of the social housing units are suitable
for families with children as per the City’s High-Density Housing
for Families with Children Guidelines.
52. Design and construct the social housing in line with the City’s
Housing, Design and Technical Guidelines, including the
requirement to deliver a minimum of 5% of units within each social
housing building or parcel as wheelchair accessible.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 52
Note to Applicant: Applicant to work with City staff to agree the
location and unit type for the accessible units.
Market Housing
53. Design development to ensure that no less than 35% of the
market housing units are suitable for families with children, as per
the Family Room: Housing Mix Policy for Rezoning Projects, with
no less than 10% of all market units being three bedroom units,
unless otherwise agreed to by the Director of Planning.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be suitable for
families with children. High-Density Housing for Families with
Children Guidelines is currently under review. Future development
permit applications will be expected to respond to the latest
version of the Guidelines at that time.
54. Design development to ensure no less than 5% of the market
housing units in each phase are designed to be wheelchair
accessible.
Civic Facilities and Public Spaces
55. Design development to the civic centre which will include a
community centre, ice rink and childcare facility to the satisfaction
of the Director of Facilities Planning and Development in
consultation with the General Manager of Parks and Recreation
and the Managing Director of Social Development.
Note to Applicant: The design of the community centre and ice rink
should meet the intent of the Recreational Facility Technical
Guidelines.
56. Design development of a 69-space childcare that will be
licensable by Vancouver Coastal Health’s Community Care
Facilities Licensing (CCFL) and meets the intent of the City's
Childcare Design Guidelines and Childcare Technical Guidelines,
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services and the General Manager of Real Estate and
Facilities Management. A minimum gross indoor area of 765 sq. m
(8235 sq. ft.) and not less than (745 sq. m) 8,020 sq. ft. of
contiguous outdoor area, with adequate space for each program is
required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 53
Notes to Applicant:
(a) The childcare facility is to be co-located with and integrated
into the Community Centre;
(b) An additional 15% for mechanical requirements, or
approximately 115 sq. m (1240 sq. ft.), should be factored
into the design;
(c) The childcare will require access to a dedicated garbage
room, storage and end-of-trip facilities;
(d) Ensure dedicated elevator and access is sized to
accommodate four-position strollers;
(e) Parking needs are outlined in the Childcare Design
Guidelines. 11 parking stalls (2 staff; 9 parent pick-up/
drop-off) will be required, preferably on Level P1. The
parking stalls should be situated in close proximity to the
dedicated childcare elevator, and safe passage from the
parked vehicles to the elevator lobby should be provided;
(f) Provide a minimum floor-to-floor height of 12 ft. in childcare
spaces;
(g) Mitigation measures to ensure optimal safety and
supervision for the proposed childcare outdoor area;
(h) Childcare facilities are to be located and oriented such that
the outdoor play area is able to receive a minimum of
3 hours of direct sunlight per day, at the winter solstice.
The proposed location is well located for sunlight
exposure; and
(i) Applicant to provide a detailed indoor and outdoor area
allotment for each of the 4 childcare programs.
57. Applicant to provide a detailed table of areas specific to the
childcare facility. The childcare facility, including siting, orientation
and proximity to roadways, will be subject to review by Community
Care Facilities Licensing (CCFL) and Vancouver Coastal Health.
58. Design development to the civic centre to ensure a clear presence
in the public realm with visibility, prominence, and clear
connections to the future Georgia Plaza and if feasible on the
central plaza; and to ensure highly visible, inviting and accessible
public access to the civic centre rooftop terrace from grade at the
waterfront.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 54
Note to Applicant: The eastern corner of the civic centre will be an
opportunity for a corner element and entry expression that is
designed to welcome and draw people in from the future Georgia
Plaza area and waterfront. See also Conditions (b)10 and (c)32.
59. Design development to provide direct elevator and stair access
from below-grade parking and loading to the community centre
and child care spaces. Parking and loading arrangement to permit
independent operation of music presentation centre from
remainder of civic centre.
60. Provision of civic centre within a single air space parcel. Design
development to provide for single atrium entrance for community
centre and ice rink with the capacity to share function space and
washrooms, and also secure and operate community centre and
ice rink independently.
61. Design development of commercial kitchen in community centre to
meet venting and other commercial kitchen requirements,
including demand-controlled kitchen exhaust and non-fossil-fueled
makeup air integrated with kitchen ventilation supply.
62. Provide separate dedicated mechanical and electrical rooms with
separate metering for community centre, childcare facility, and ice
rink.
63. Design development of the community centre to meet structural
requirements of the high-importance category classification as
defined by the Vancouver Building By-Law. Design development to
provide capacity to connect to portable emergency power supply
to support post-disaster shelter functions including commercial
kitchen, washrooms, lighting and heating.
64. The goal for the City-owned, high performance, new construction
standard is to achieve near zero greenhouse gas emissions in
new buildings. The purpose of this goal is to show leadership to
the broader community in meeting the targets of the Renewable
City Strategy, and adopt a near zero emission standard for new
buildings much earlier than required by building code for all new
buildings constructed city wide.
65. To achieve a goal of near zero GHG emissions in new buildings
the following strategies are required to be incorporated into new
city-owned buildings:
(a) All City capital funded buildings must be designed to be
certified to the Passive House energy performance
standard, or an approved alternative zero emission
building standard, and use only low carbon fuel sources, in

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 55
order to minimise energy consumption and GHG
emissions;
(b) LEED® Gold Certification is also required by the City of
Vancouver for all public buildings, tenant improvements,
and facilities funded by City capital funds which are over
500 square meters in area. Refer to the most current
LEED® Canada NC, CI, or other appropriate LEED
category, Guidebook. The current version of the USGBC
LEED® for Homes - Multi-family Midrise for 4 to 12 storey
buildings is also acceptable;
(c) Facilities received from other sources, including those
constructed for the City using CAC funding, and those with
long term leases to the City for the life of the building,
should be constructed to the same standard as City capital
funded facilities. Where the City-funded facility is in an air
space parcel in a larger building funded by others, and it is
not viable to achieve Passive House certification for the
whole building, then at a minimum the city owned portion
of the building must be designed and shown to achieve a
minimum of 35% reduction in energy consumption
compared to the current City of Vancouver Building By-law
(ASHRAE 90.1 2010 or NECB 2011), and reduce
Greenhouse Gas Emissions through the use of only low
carbon fuel sources;
(d) Mechanical and control systems should be designed to be
as simple as possible to reduce maintenance costs and the
need for specialized maintenance expertise; and
Note to Applicant: A preliminary energy modelling exercise
must be undertaken during the preliminary design stage to
evaluate options for design of the building envelope,
mechanical and electrical systems, and energy
conservation measures (ECMs) which meet or exceed the
City’s energy performance target and make the most
sense for the project based on energy and GHG savings,
financial impact and ease of maintenance.
(e) The ice rink must be designed using CO -based refrigerant
2
systems and incorporate heat recovery which will be use to
heat the ice rink and other city-owned facilities.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 56
66. Design and finish the following to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
Managing Director of Cultural Services, the Director of Public
Space and Street Use, and the Director of Facilities Planning and
Development for:
(a) The central plaza as a minimum 2,800 sq. m (30,139 sq.
ft.) area with a minimum 30.48 m (100 ft.) width at ground
level;
(b) The waterfront plaza as a contiguous space comprised of a
minimum waterfront steps area of 566 sq. m (6,091 sq. ft.),
the 20 m (66 ft.) wide dedicated seawall in the waterfront
plaza area, and a further setback area to the waterfront
building to be determined during design development; and
(c) A level, hard-space plaza (preferably a portion of the
above required central plaza or waterfront plaza) for the
music presentation centre for outdoor dining with easy and
direct access to and from amenity’s food and beverage
space, and for occasional event use, providing a useful,
flexible space that can serve a variety of needs which
include accommodating spillover functions from the music
presentation centre, and informal and formal plaza use.
67. Design development of plazas to adhere to the City’s Plaza
Design Guidelines:
(a) Provide details on functional use, design, and adjacencies
for all plazas; and
(b) Review requirements for emergency access and include
special design consideration and infrastructure required for
event and/or presentation use, including but not limited to,
loading access, structural load capacity to accommodate
loaded forklifts; electrical supply for lighting and power;
running water and grey water disposal.
68. Provide new acoustic report for plazas. Acoustic report identified
from 2012 is no longer relevant. A new acoustic study and report
for any and all plazas where outdoor event and presentations are
identified, including central plaza and waterfront plaza,
considering acoustic impact of plaza events and entertainment, for
local area and South False Creek residential and office units is
required.
69. Provide, in consultation with the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability, Managing Director of Cultural
Services, Director Public Space and Street Use, and the Director

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 57
of Facilities Planning and Development, plaza stewardship details,
in alignment with the Public Space Stewardship Strategy review,
ensuring community access.
Notes to Applicant:
• Design public spaces with Urban Indigenous user groups in
mind to ensure everyone feels welcome in that space.
• Seek opportunities to normalize Indigenous language in
Vancouver, through wayfinding and place/asset naming.
• Seek opportunities to integrate Indigenous art and designs as
a permanent part of the public realm.
70. Design development of the music presentation centre, preferably
adjacent to the civic centre, to the satisfaction of the Managing
Director of Cultural Services and the Director of Facilities Planning
and Development to ensure that the functional requirements of the
music presentation centre can be met. Design development to
meet to Detailed Functional Program requirements to be provided
by the City. Spaces to include but are not limited to:
(a) Overheight Performance spaces (Main Hall: 225 fixed
seats plus 100 other patrons in a flexible configuration;
Secondary Performance venue: 100 patrons seated or 150
patrons standing) and associated spaces including:
(i) Control room/editing/recording/streaming room;
(ii) Lobby/entry/ticketing/merchandising (with
overheight);
(iii) Green rooms/ dressing rooms;
(iv) Storage rooms (including for pianos, etc.);
(v) Mechanical rooms;
(vi) Janitor rooms/support spaces; and
(vii) Washrooms;
(b) Crush bar, Food & Beverage Space, Catering Kitchen;
(c) Administrative space; and
(d) Programmable/educational room and music
library/archives room.
71. Design development of the music presentation centre with a
strong visual identity, ground-level entrance, and distinct
presence, including large identification signage in high traffic, high
visibility location, with spaces located on no more than two
contiguous floors (no higher than second floor).
72. Design development of the music presentation centre with design
input and review from a qualified performance space architect and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 58
an acoustic consultant to ensure acoustically-superior quality for
the two theatre/performance venues: the Music Hall and the
Informal Venue, and to ensure acoustic isolation between spaces
within the music presentation centre, adjacent spaces within the
building, from outdoors, and from mechanical equipment (i.e.
HVAC), to the satisfaction of the Managing Director of Cultural
Services and the Director of Facilities Planning and Development.
73. The music presentation centre is to adhere to City’s Social Facility
Technical Guidelines, including:
(a) Special consideration for music presentation centre fit and
finishes may include but are not limited to: acoustic
controls, architectural millwork, ceiling heights, wall, floor
and ceiling finishes, mechanical including electrical,
plumbing, lighting, and HVAC, specialties and furnishings,
loading access, parking, bicycle parking, and accessibility
for peoples with disabilities (including performers and
audiences, and technicians wherever possible);
(b) Requires access to a dedicated garbage room, storage
and end-of-trip facilities; and
(c) Ensure dedicated freight-sized elevator and loading
access, able to accommodate large equipment and
instruments, including pianos.
Engineering
74. The Applicant is advised to contact Engineering Services to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
75. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(No.4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent the Rezoning Site. Current construction practices
regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk
during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 59
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
76. Solid waste storage amenities are proposed in the parking level of
buildings and must be no more than one storey below grade.
Loading bays must be provided within these underground
structures where garbage and recycling can be picked up by a
disposal service without the staging of containers on public
right-of-way.
77. The size of garbage/recycling storage rooms must be in
compliance with the guidelines set out in the Garbage and
Recycling Storage Amenity Design Supplement. The space
allotted must exceed the minimum set out in the guidelines to
allow for future waste diversion programs (e.g. electronics, bulky
items, textiles), donation bins and for the re-use/exchange within
common garbage areas.
78. Provision of a letter from the hauling company servicing the site
outlining the collection of garbage and recycling, including the
frequency of trips.
Note to Applicant: Vehicle trips for waste stream collection should
be minimized by engaging a single hauler.
79. Provision of a leading edge processing of organic compostable
material on site. Commercial composters utilizing controlled
conditions can safely digest food waste at a much faster speed
than natural conditions. This composting process reduces the
volume by up to 90%, turning food waste into compost in 24 hours
and is consistent with the City Greenest City 2020 goals of
reducing GHG emissions. The Applicant is required to provide a
letter from a service provider to ensure the feasibility of the
system.
Note to Applicant: If this opportunity is not pursued, another
innovative zero waste measure must be provided to meet the
intent of the Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large Developments.
80. All receptacles in common areas should utilize clear signage and
colour coding of various waste streams to encourage the proper
diversion of material. Colour coding areas of the room to further
clarify sorting options should be considered.
Note to Applicant: Signage and colour coding should be consistent
with Metro Vancouver guidelines and utilize best practices.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 60
81. Provision of parking as per the Parking By-law.
82. Provision of abundant Class B bicycle parking near all retail
entrances and the community centre, on private property outside
of any sidewalk statutory right-of-way.
83. Provision of parking and loading access to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. The following revisions
are required:
(a) Provide sufficient ramp width and corner cuts to eliminate
conflicts between general vehicle traffic and truck access
on the parking ramp;
(b) If loading relaxations are being sought, a Loading
Management Plan is required, and a Shared Loading
Agreement may be required;
(c) Provision of a convenient ‘stairs free’ internal loading
access to all CRUs and elevator cores. Consider a loading
dock, loading lift or elevator to achieve this. Slopes in
loading corridors should generally meet requirements for
disability access;
(d) Design development to improve performance of driveway
crossings onto the internal roadway including increased
sight distances and reduced ramp grades. For parking and
loading ramps that are accessed directly from the street,
the slope shall not exceed 5% in slope for the first 20 ft. of
the ramp;
(e) All Class B bicycle spaces to be located on private
property in close proximity to the lobby or building entrance
with ‘stairs free’ access and weather protection. Bicycles
and racks shall not encroach into the SRW for the
sidewalks along the internal roadway and the site; and
(f) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
84. Design development to improve parking operations and comply
with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as
follows:
(a) Provide improved drawings indicating the proposed
parking, loading and bicycle parking facilities, including
adequate dimensions, grades, elevations, and turning
movement tracks in order to verify design adequacy and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 61
general compliance with the Parking By-law and the
Parking and Loading Design Supplement; and
(b) Design development to improve access to bicycle parking.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and not require
use of the shared parking ramp.
85. The following information is required for drawing submission at the
development permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation
review:
(a) A complete tech table is required showing the calculations
for the minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces
and the number of spaces being provided;
(b) All types of parking and loading spaces individually
numbered, and labelled on the drawings;
(c) Dimension of column encroachments into parking stalls;
(d) Dimensions for typical parking spaces;
(e) Dimensions of additional setbacks for parking spaces due
to columns and walls;
(f) Dimensions of manoeuver aisles and the drive aisles at the
parkade entrance and all gates;
(g) Section drawings showing elevations and minimum vertical
clearances for parking levels, loading bays, ramps, and
security gates. These clearances must consider
mechanical projections and built obstructions;
(h) Areas of minimum vertical clearances labelled on parking
levels;
(i) Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and drive
aisles at all breakpoints, loading bays, disability spaces,
and at all entrances. The slope and length of the ramped
sections at all breakpoints to be shown on the submitted
drawings; and
(j) Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside. Stair ramps are not
generally acceptable.
86. The new geometric design for the internal roadway is to include,
but is not limited to, the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 62
(a) Relocate the parking and loading access for the Rezoning
Site sub-area A block to be approximately 20 m further
away from Pacific Boulevard;
(b) Design development to reduce road width at 90 degree
corners while accommodating large vehicle movements.
Additional corner cuts on the corners will be required to
achieve the geometric design and to maintain a consistent
5.5 m sidewalk width around the corner. The dimensions
for the corner cuts will be determined once a detailed
review of the internal road geometric is completed;
(c) Enhanced pedestrian crossing on the internal road
between the central plaza and the Seawall;
(d) Surface materials and treatment that support universal
access for people of all ages and abilities, and that are low
maintenance;
(e) Provision of separate walking and cycling paths along the
waterfront, except for the pedestrianized Georgia Wharf,
each a minimum 4.5 m in width with suitable separation of
a minimum 2.0 m in width, and with controlled pedestrian
crossing points at key locations; and
(f) Provision of standard curb and gutter on all internal streets
between any sidewalk and vehicle parking/travel lane and
removal of all proposed bollards on these streets.
87. Design development to reduce parking provided on site to the
minimum required to support the development.
Note to Applicant: As part of the updated Traffic Assessment and
Management Study (TAMS) provided at the development permit
stage, an analysis of parking requirements it to be completed. This
analysis should reflect lower parking requirements due to the
provision of TDM measures outlined in the Green Mobility Plan,
consider strategies for unbundled vehicle parking from home
ownership, and reflect observed vehicle ownership rates.
88. Design and construction of the Seawall is to be completed in
conjunction with Engineering Services staff, and to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: Corner cuts and additional setbacks may be
required to improve the function of the corners in the proposed
geometry, improve sightlines, and allow for integration with the
existing and/or future Seawall design on the adjacent properties.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 63
89. All public realm space intended to be managed by City of
Vancouver including seawall, street right-of-way and dedicated
pedestrian areas shall be designed in consultation with
Engineering, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: Design of the public realm should include
convenient access to connect to the electrical grid for events,
festivals, and other users to prevent the use of fossil fuel based
generators.
90. Provision of Zero Emission Vehicle parking stalls as per the
following:
(a) 100% of residential parking stall to have energized outlets
at Level 2 (208/240V at 40A) or an EV Energy
Management System that meets a performance standard
that delivers at least 12 kWh to each stall over an 8-hour
overnight period;
(b) 10% of commercial and retails stall with Level 2 chargers;
(c) 10% of the community centre stalls to have Level 2
chargers with an additional 20% to be wired for future
expansion; and
(d) Preferential parking for zero emissions vehicles to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
91. Consideration should be given to implementing the following items
as part of the Green Mobility plan:
(a) Design development to achieve convenient access from
Class A bicycle parking to excellent end of trip facilities for
all non-residential uses. Consider bundling and locating
commercial bike facilities adjacent to retail uses within the
development area to leverage a better quality of
infrastructure that exceeds the minimum standards of the
Parking By-law in terms of convenience and design;
(b) Provision of shared vehicles and parking spaces for shared
vehicles, both one-way and two-way, within the
development;
(c) Limited use of hydraulic stacked bicycle parking may be
considered for bicycle parking above Parking By-law
requirements, with provision of technical information and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 64
product data that supports their use for All Ages and
Abilities;
(d) Reserved Carpool spaces for office use;
(e) Rapid electric vehicle charging stations;
(f) Bicycle repair station with bicycle wash area;
(g) Indoor, secured Class B bicycle spaces for visitors;
(h) Provide subsidized car share memberships;
(i) Provide subsidized bike share memberships;
(j) Provide subsidized monthly compass cards;
(k) Provide ‘shared’ compass cards for residential use;
(l) Indicate on plans design accommodations made in Class A
bicycle parking areas to accommodate bike trailers, cargo
bikes, and other non-standard bike sizes; and
(m) Provide information, transit & cycling maps, car share, bike
share, compass cards to new residents to encourage
sustainable transportation choices. Consider appointing a
“Greencierge” as per the NEFC Plan (11.5.5) to assist
residents and businesses in achieving Traffic Demand
Management goals for the project.
92. Planting along Pacific Boulevard public realm to be consistent with
the NEFC Detailed Design of Roads and Utilities.
93. All planting on street rights-of-way are to be maintained by the
adjacent property owner.
94. No permanent irrigation system shall be installed in the street
right-of-way, but may be considered in the internal street.
95. All plant material within the same continuous planting area which
is located on street right-of-way within 10 m, measured from the
corner, of an intersection, pedestrian crossing, entrance to a
driveway or other conflict areas where sightlines need to be
maintained for safety reasons, shall not exceed a mature height of
0.6 m, measured from the sidewalk. All plant material within the
street right-of-way that is located outside of the areas described
above shall not exceed 1 m in height, measured from the
sidewalk.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 65
96. Plants shall be planted in such a way as to not encroach on the
sidewalk, street, lane, and/or bike lane. Provide minimum 0.30 m
buffer of low groundcover in planting beds adjacent to sidewalks.
97. Further to the Rainwater Management Plan, considerations should
be given to the following when developing the plan:
(a) Where the rainfall is to be retained and/or treated, staff do
not accept the principle that distinct site areas that have
large retention storage capacity in some way compensate
for those areas of the site that are impervious, without the
first and second 24 mm of runoff being directed towards
these absorbent areas, and this being clearly
demonstrated. The subsequent safe conveyance of rainfall
surpassing 48 mm in 24 hours will also need to be
demonstrated;
(b) Demonstrate that the receiving retention/treatment areas
can accommodate the proposed runoff volumes;
(c) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from
impermeable surfaces into planted or other
storage/treatment areas;
(d) Provide area and volume calculations to support the
overall rainwater management strategy;
(e) Building/Public Realm Design to show leadership in the
City’s commitment to Green Building systems including an
integrative approach to rainwater management to minimize
potable water use and encourage the use of alternative
water sources;
(f) Public realm, including street areas, must also be designed
to capture, reuse, infiltrate, evapotranspire, detain, and
treat rainwater to the standard of the Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan. This is to include the distribution of
rainwater on a development scale to the greatest extent
practicable, where the rainwater management system may
be integrated into the public area infrastructure. The City
may maintain streets areas, and consideration for City
Operation’s maintenance equipment and access to related
drainage infrastructure will be necessary;
(g) Consideration should be given to a joyful expression of
capture and movement of rainwater across the site; and
(h) Detention tanks shall be considered only where alternative
approaches to rainwater retention prove unachievable.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 66
Where detention tanks are to be proposed they should be
considered for storing water for alternative uses on site.
98. The Water Utility Plan drawing shows that a City-owned water
main shall be built in the Road dedication and the Seawall
Easement to serve “Lot 4.” Stagnant water in this dead end is a
concern of the City. The developer shall work with the City staff to
resolve this issue to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
99. All structures, roadways, and public access pathways must be
built to the Flood Construction Level.
100. Continuous, drained weather protection should be provided over
publicly accessible sidewalks where there are commercial uses at
grade.
101. Prior to issuance of the first development permit, the Applicant
must provide a low carbon energy feasibility study, completed to
the satisfaction of the General Manager Engineering Services, as
per the requirements of the Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large
Developments.
102. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the issuance
of any development permit, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
103. Provision for an adequate and appropriate dedicated
Neighbourhood Energy Room to be utilized by the NEU for
peaking/backup heat production and waste heat recovery shall be
provided prior to the issuance of development permit, to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The Applicant is encouraged to work closely
with City staff in the early design stages to identify requirements.
104. All buildings in the development shall connect to a City-owned low
carbon NEU, should one be available for connection as
determined by the General Manager of Engineering Services prior
to development permit issuance, and shall adhere to the following
requirements:
(a) The heating and hot water system of all buildings in the
development shall be designed to be easily connectable
and compatible with Neighbourhood Energy to supply all
heating and domestic hot water requirements; design
provisions related to Neighbourhood Energy compatibility

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 67
must be to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
Note to Applicant: The Applicant shall refer to the Energy
Utility System By-law (No. 9552) and Neighbourhood
Energy Utility Building Connection Guideline (2016) for
specific design requirements, which includes provisions
related to the location of the mechanical room(s),
centralization of mechanical equipment, pumping and
control strategy, and other hydronic heating and domestic
hot water system minimum requirements.
The Applicant is encouraged to work closely with Staff to
ensure adequate provisions for NEU compatibility are
provided for in the mechanical design. As a pre-condition
to building permit, the City will conduct a peer design
review of the building’s connection to the NEU to ensure
that the Neighbourhood Energy connectivity requirements
have been satisfied.
(b) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air
shall be provided by hydronic systems without electric
resistance heat or distributed heat generating equipment
(including but not limited to gas fired make-up air heaters,
heat producing fireplaces, distributed heat pumps, etc.)
unless otherwise approved by the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
(c) Provide for 21 m2 of dedicated space on the P1 level of
each building within the development to be utilized for an
energy transfer station connecting the building(s) to the
City-owned low-carbon NES, as outlined in the
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards – Design
Guidelines, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services; and
(d) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical
heating system at the building permit stage must be to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
Environmental Contamination
105. The Property Owner shall obtain and submit to the City copies of
all contamination studies and the consequential remediation
plan(s), approved by the Province (or any certified professional in
accordance with the BC Environmental Management Act or
regulation thereto), in respect to the Rezoning Site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 68
106. The Property Owner shall obtain and submit to the City a
Remediation Plan for all lands being transferred or dedicated to
the City, and all lands required to service the Rezoning Site,
including providing utility construction plans compatible with the
accepted Remediation Plan(s), satisfactory to the City Manager.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the amended CD-1(349) By-law, the registered
owner (the “Applicant”) shall on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Director of Legal Services, the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering Services,
the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management and the
Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. A subdivision strategy needs to be provided by the Applicant for
approval by the City and the Approving Officer.
2. Subdivision to consolidate Lot 155, False Creek, Plan 21425 and
District Lot 6352, Group 1, NWD, the “Rezoning Site”, to create
the development and marina parcels, and dedication of road
(park) as required. The dedications are to include both the
perimeter seawall (min. 20 m in width), and the Pacific Boulevard
widening as per the draft survey plan attached as EPP79799
(prepared by WSP Surveys). The subdivision must comply with
the requirements of Section 75(1)(c) of the Land Title Act with
respect to the provision of access by way of dedication corridors
to water (20 metres wide) at intervals of 200 metres minimum.
3. A road dedication of 20.0 m is required for the necessary eastern
site access from Pacific Boulevard through to the Crown land
covered by water to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Approving Officer.
or
At the Applicant’s sole cost and expense and only if obtained prior
to the subdivision of the Rezoning Site described in Condition (c)2
above, a road dedication of 10.0 m from the Rezoning Site
supplemented by a further 10.0 m road dedication from adjacent
Lot 337 and 338 Plan BCP42676 and a District Lot 5790 to the
Crown land covered by water is required for the necessary
eastern access. If the 10 m dedication from Lots 337 and 338, and
District Lot 5790 is not obtained, then the Applicant must dedicate
the full 20 m area for road.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 69
Note to Applicant: A registered Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) and
option to purchase for a nominal fee for road purposes may be
acceptable in lieu of dedication from neighboring Lot 337 and 338
Plan BCP42676 and District Lot 5790. This road is essential for
public water access in accordance with Section 75(1)(c) of the
Land Title Act and is required for access to both developments
(Sub-area 6B and 6C) and is consistent with the Northeast False
Creek (NEFC) Plan.
4. Execution of a Road Proximity Agreement over the Rezoning Site,
including permitting the City and any permittee or licensee of the
City to gain access to the Rezoning Site and any buildings and
improvements located thereon, to conduct any required work
including bringing materials on to the Rezoning Site to allow for
the future reconstruction of Pacific Boulevard related to the NEFC
Infrastructure Project and any construction or reconstruction of
utilities. The owner further acknowledges and agrees that if the
Viaducts are removed in the future that vehicular and/or
pedestrian access to the Rezoning Site from City streets may be
restricted.
5. Execution of a Site Modification Agreement for the Applicant to
perform all modifications of the Rezoning Site to meet future
grades to connect the Rezoning Site to the new Pacific Boulevard
for the NEFC Infrastructure Project.
Note to Applicant: A portion of the existing building at the northeast
corner of the site is located in the required road dedication for the
future Pacific Boulevard. Modifications to this building, with costs
to be covered by the Applicant, may be required as part of this
agreement.
6. Dedication of the “Legacy Forest”, the beach areas and the
seating steps to the City as road or contained in a separate park
parcel to be owned and maintained by the City is required.
7. A portion of the Legacy Forest is on Unsurveyed Crown land
therefore an application by the Applicant to the Province would be
required to secure tenure in favour of and at no cost to the City on
terms and conditions satisfactory of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services.
8. A Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) “as if City street” over the portion
of the internal “U-shaped” road providing the westerly connection
to Pacific Boulevard to the connection to the portion of the new
access road at the easterly end of the site, which is to be
dedicated in accordance with Condition (c)3 and a connection to
the Cooperage Way SRW (BB090814-8) on the neighbouring site

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 70
to the west is required. The SRW will require minimum 25 ft.
clearance above finished grade.
Note to Applicant: SRW BB090814-8 (to Cooperage Way) is
limited to pedestrian passage only.
9. Arrangements shall be made for the provision of setback and
surface right-of-way to achieve minimum sidewalk width of 5.5 m
from the back of curb to building face on all streets with at grade
commercial use.
Note to Applicant: Any adjacent bike facilities are considered part
of the road and are not part of the sidewalk. The Pacific Boulevard
setback from back of curb to building face is beyond the 5.5 m
sidewalk width to achieve the “Great Streets” design.
10. Arrangements shall be made, for the execution of a Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) for the provision of space to accommodate a
Public Bike Share (PBS) Station. The SRW is to be a blanket
charge and modified to a surface plan based on as-built
conditions.
(a) Size: At minimum a 25 m x 4 m (or 13 m x 8 m back-to-
back) sized station shall be accommodated. The full length
of the space is to be continuous. The physical station with
docked bicycles is 2 m wide and has a required bicycle
maneuvering zone of 2 m for a total width of 4 m;
(b) Location: The station must be fully located on private
property while still clearly visible to the public with 24/7
public access. Of the two proposed bike share station
location options as shown on page 201 of the rezoning
booklet, option 2 on private property by the central plaza
near Pacific Boulevard is acceptable;
(c) Access: Consideration for placement of building elements
(e.g. fire department connections, HVAC vents, etc.) and
landscaping that require frequent access and maintenance
directly adjacent to the PBS space. These elements shall
not be in conflict or cause frequent disruption to the PBS
station;
(d) Surface treatment: A hard surface (CIP concrete — saw
cut or broom finished) is required with no utility access
points within the PBS station footprint (except as noted
below). Other firm, paved materials are subject to
approval. Any utility access point within 1 m of the PBS
space is to be identified and shown in a detailed drawing
submitted;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 71
(e) Grades: The surface must be leveled with a maximum
cross slope of 3% and have a consistent grade (i.e. no
grade transitions) along the length with a maximum slope
of 5%. At minimum, spot elevations at the four corners of
the station must be provided;
(f) Sun exposure: There must be a minimum of 5 m vertical
clearance above the PBS space in order to maximize sun
exposure as station operates on solar power. Ideally the
station should receive 5 hours of direct sunlight a day; and
(g) Power: Provision of an electrical service and electrical
power is to be available in close proximity to the PBS
station.
11. Arrangements for the execution and registration of public access
Statutory Rights-of-Way for bike path connections through the site.
This would include bicycle access through the central plaza and
on any bicycle path located on private land.
12. Arrangements for the execution and registration of any
agreements for the provision of a minimum of six (6) DC Fast
Charging Hub stations on a private street in the development
area.
13. The Applicant’s drawings appear to indicate that the existing
pedestrian overpasses linking BC Place and the development site
are to be removed. Confirmation is required from PavCo that the
overpasses removal is acceptable. If so, then the Pedestrian
Overpasses Encroachment Agreement R92192, SRW & Covenant
R102467-71 and the pedestrian ramp and stair easement
R129648 will need to be modified or released, with arrangements
being made with PavCo at no cost to the City.
14. Clarification is required as to whether the development site is to
be serviced by way of the existing utility duct bank under Pacific
Boulevard (currently containing electrical, telephone & steam
heat) under Easement and Indemnity Agreement R92193.
15. Execution of a Shoreline Works Agreement to detail the required
shoreline works such that they are designed, constructed and
installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street dedications
and rights-of-way for the services are provided. No development
permit for the site will be issued until the security for the services
are provided.
(a) Design and construction of shoreline flood protection
measures meeting all requirements including but not
limited to elevation and seismic standards to the

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 72
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services;
(b) Design and construction of a permanent Seawall providing
continuous pedestrian and cycling pathways through the
site to the satisfaction of the General Manger of
Engineering Services. This work includes, but is not limited
to, fill, grade separated facilities, surface treatments, paint
markings and signage, pedestrian scale lighting, drainage
systems, and furnishings such as benches and waste
receptacles;
(c) Design and construction of a Ferry Dock and ramp at a
location satisfactory to the City Engineer to replace the
existing facilities on site, with public access secured over
the uplands and the water lot(s) and the Ferry Dock facility;
(d) Provision of access to and support of the Shoreline Works
and Ferry Dock from both the uplands and the water lots
and grant of rights-of-way as required by the City Engineer,
including a blanket right-of-way over the water lots for
access to the Shoreline Works for maintenance and repair
purposes; and
(e) Maintenance of the water lots to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer, in such a manner as to preserve the amenity
value inherent in the Shoreline Works.
16. Arrangements for the execution and registration of a Flood Plain
Covenant.
17. Provision of a Charge Summary and legal opinion as to whether
any Charges need to be released or modified to the satisfaction of
the Director of Legal Services. Numerous charges will require
modification, replacement or release, including:
(a) Performance Space Agreement BN313693-4 (modified by
BW549236-7) will need to be modified, replaced or
released to accommodate the new public plaza;
(b) Modification, replacement, or release of Easement &
Indemnity Agreement R92193;
(c) Streetcar/Transit SRW & Covenant BN313689-90 will
require release;
(d) Casino-related charges BW315817, BW549233-4 and
BW549238-42 will require release;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 73
(e) Floodplain Covenant BN313696 will require replacement to
conform to revised floodplain regulations;
(f) Public Art Agreement BN313695 is to be released and
replaced with a new agreement;
(g) Temporary Shoreline Easement GB43689 is to be released
concurrently with registration of the subdivision plan
dedicating the waterfront walkway;
(h) No Development Covenant BN313691-2 resulting from an
approved 1998 rezoning application will need replacement;
(i) Upon relocation of the sewer outfall located over a small
portion of the northerly end of the development site (see
VAP18548) Statutory Right-of-Way R92196 is to be
released;
(j) Ferry Dock, Ceremonial Dock, Shoreline Works &
Walkway/Bikeway SRW & Covenant BN313681-87 will
require release upon registration of the required
dedications and Statutory Rights-of-Way; and
(k) Modification, replacement, or release of Payment-in-Lieu
Parking Agreement BN313697.
18. Provision of a Traffic Assessment and Management Study (TAMS)
in relation to the proposed development phasing to ensure that the
road network in existence at the time of development permit
issuance for each respective phase or in respect of any portion of
development on the Rezoning Site will adequately accommodate
the projected traffic volumes to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. Any required upgrades to the
street network shall be at the sole cost and expense of the
Applicant and be as determined necessary by the General
Manager of Engineering Services. The Applicant will be required
to enter into appropriate legal agreements to secure obligations
related to the delivery of any street network upgrades determined
necessary by the General Manager of Engineering Services from
the TAMS to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
Note to Applicant: It is expected that the TAMS will show
improvements are required to the existing street network, which
may include conversion of a portion of Pacific Boulevard from
Cambie Street to Pat Quinn Way to two-way operation. The
Applicant will be 100% responsible for the associated costs. If the
City proceeds with the NEFC Infrastructure Project or a portion
thereof, subject to Council approval, in advance or in coordination
with the development of the Rezoning Site, the Applicant will be

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 74
required to fund the proportionate share of the costs that they
would otherwise have been responsible for in order to satisfy this
condition, including all environmental remediation and
management costs associated with the street network upgrades to
the City’s satisfaction.
19. Provision of a Green Mobility Plan with commitments to initiatives
that are beyond the parking by-law requirements.
Note to Applicant: See form of development condition for Zero
Emission Vehicle parking stall requirements and other elements to
consider as part of the Green Mobility Plan.
20. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that
meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Water
Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the following objectives:
(a) Retain or infiltrate 50% of the 6-month storm event volume
(24 mm) onsite;
(b) Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) onsite;
(c) The post-development flow rate discharged to the sewer
shall be no greater than the existing pre-development flow
rate discharged to the sewer, using the 10-year return
period storm event and the following storm durations:
(i) 30 minutes AES storm;
(ii) 1 hour AES storm;
(iii) 2 hour AES storm;
(iv) 6 hour AES storm; and
(v) 24 hour SCS Type 1A storm.
The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curves, whereas the post development estimate shall use
the 2100 IDF curves to account for climate change
projections and to comply with the City’s current design
criteria;
(d) 1000 m3 of stormwater storage shall be provided on-site to
mitigate overland flooding on Pacific Boulevard, or similar
alternative, during a 100-year return period storm event
(2100 IDF) to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 75
(e) Complete analysis of 100 year storm event (2100 IDF) to
confirm a safe overland flood route is provided for severe
rain events and emergency overflow. This overflow route is
also to mitigate damage to the development; and
(f) Site run-off shall be managed on-site.
Note to Applicant: Legal agreements may be required to ensure
on-going operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater
management and green infrastructure systems.
21. Provision of a groundwater management plan to be reviewed and
accepted by the General Manager of Engineering Services. The
plan shall include confirmation that no groundwater will be
discharged to the sewer system.
22. Execute a Services Agreement to detail the delivery of all on-site
and off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the Rezoning Site (collectively called the “Services”)
such that they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost
to the City and that all necessary street dedications and rights of
way for the Services are provided all to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. Infrastructure
upgrades triggered by the proposed density in the rezoning by-law
for the Rezoning Site will be considered as required Services and
distinct from any Community Amenity Contribution provided by the
Applicant towards the NEFC precinct-serving road and utility
network upgrades. Without limiting the discretion of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services, this agreement shall include provisions that:
(a) No Development Permit for the Rezoning Site or any
improvements or buildings thereon shall be issued until
financial security to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services is provided for the delivery of the Services;
(b) Design and construction by the Applicant of, or, if
performed by the City, reimbursement to the City all costs
incurred by the City to design and construct, all street
network and utilities upgrades in order to support the
development as determined necessary by the General
Manager of Engineering Service, for the safe, efficient and
reliable movement of people, goods and emergency
vehicles in order to provide access to and from the
Rezoning Site, including but not limited to any street
network upgrades identified in the Applicant’s Traffic
Assessment and Management Study;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 76
Note to Applicant: The developer is responsible for 100%
of the costs for any required interim street network
upgrades that have not received funding approval by
Council and built by the City prior to the issuance of a
development permit for the density associated with the
development that requires the street network upgrades.
(c) No Development Permit for the Rezoning Site or any
improvements or buildings thereon shall be issued until the
design of all the Services, including any and all new roads
and reconfiguration of the street network in and around the
Rezoning Site, is completed to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services;
(d) The design of all the Services, including the provision of all
street network and utility upgrades, must be completed to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services;
(e) Development and occupancy of certain buildings or
improvements pursuant to this rezoning of the Rezoning
Site will be tied to and only be permitted upon completion
of the Services, including the street network and utility
upgrades, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
(f) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The developer shall submit
confirmed fire flows (as calculated per Water Supply for
Public Fire Protection by the Fire Underwriter Survey),
sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic water
demands to the Waterworks Branch. Should analysis of
the confirmed fire flows and domestic flows require
upgrades, the developer shall be responsible to bear 100%
of all upgrade costs;
(g) The developer shall prepare a “Water Parcel Strategy” to
detail the planned servicing configuration, to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services;
Note to Applicant: Vancouver Coastal Health and the City
of Vancouver limit the building area served by one set of
interconnected services to approximately 90,000 m2. The
City can serve the site with multiple sets of interconnected
services; the plumbing design would have to ensure that
each proposed “lot” are separate “water parcels”, i.e. they
are isolated and completely independent from one another,
with each lot independently metered and served by

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 77
separate services. Each water parcel shall not have a
building area greater than 90,000 m2.
If the requirement to separate water parcels is not met,
Vancouver Coastal Health will consider the water
infrastructure on site a “system within a system”,
designating the development site as an independent water
distribution system and an independent water purveyor.
The site would need to obtain its own water distribution
permit from Vancouver Coastal Health.
(h) Provision of an upgraded sanitary sewer on Nelson Street
of approximately 70 m from the existing 750 mm to a 900
mm main. The length and diameter of this improvement is
approximate and subject to detailed design by the
Developer’s Engineer, as well as review and acceptance
by the City Engineer. The site is to be serviced to the
existing sanitary sewer on Pacific Boulevard;
(i) Provision of 1000 m3 of stormwater storage shall be
provided on-site to mitigate overland flooding on Pacific
Boulevard;
(j) Provision of adequate storm sewer service to meet the
demands of the project. The developer is responsible for
100% of any sewer system upgrading that may be
required. Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for, or delivery
of all the upgrades. The site is to be serviced by the
existing storm sewer on Pacific Boulevard;
(k) Provision of a comprehensive site-wide Rainwater
Management Plan at the time of the first development
application containing details on how the targets set out in
the Citywide Integrated Rainwater Management Plan will
be achieved once all phases of the development are
complete. Each phase of development application will
trigger an updating of the Rainwater Management Plan
within the overall strategy for the site;
(l) Provision of a report to the City as including data related to
the types and quantities of waste diverted and the quantity
of waste disposed, as outlined in the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments. Reports are to be
provided within 18 months of occupancy, as well as 5
years post-occupancy;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 78
(m) Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right of way;
(n) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent to
the Rezoning Site and along all internal roads and
pathways that meet current City standards. Duct banks are
to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to
meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by the
General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work;
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(o) Design and construction of an AAA cycling facility through
the site connecting Pacific Boulevard to the Seawall or a
suitable alternative;
(p) Design and construction of a cycling connection from
Pacific Boulevard and the Seawall to the community
centre, childcare facility, and ice rink;
(q) Design and construction of new internal U-road, streets
and intersections through the site to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services;
Note to Applicant: Geometric changes are required, as
detailed in items to be addressed at the development
permit stage.
(r) Provision of pedestrian lighting along the waterfront, public
pathways, and other public areas with limited vehicle
access;
(s) Provision of a minimum of six (6) DC Fast Charging Hub
stations on a private street in the development area that is
accessible to the general public;
Note to Applicant: Hub is to be comprised of a minimum of
two direct current fast chargers (SAE DC Level 2 or higher,
greater than or equivalent to 50 kW) station and one AC
Level 2 (6.6 or 7.4 kW, depending on if they have one- or
three-phase power) station. Consider chargers above 50
kW or future-proofing to be able to accommodate higher

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 79
loads in the future as this technology is rapidly evolving
and vehicles able to handle 125 kW and above are
expected to enter the market in the near future, likely prior
to build out of the development.
(t) Provision of a traffic signal at intersection of Pacific
Boulevard and the south internal road access;
(u) Provision of a pedestrian signal on Pacific Boulevard at the
pedestrian connection between the central plaza and BC
Place;
(v) Design and construction of the portion of Pacific Boulevard
adjacent to the site, to be in keeping with the required
public realm plans, streetscape plans, or guidelines issued
by the City to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services; and
Note to Applicant: The Pacific Boulevard public realm plan
will require greater road widths to achieve the “Great
Streets” design.
(w) Removal of the pedestrian overpasses linking BC Place
and the development site.
23. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plants, which includes but is not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks), all
of which are to be located on private property with no reliance on
public property or City Statutory Rights-of-Way area for the
placement of these features.
The Applicant is to provide confirmation that all required electrical
plants are provided for on-site. There is to be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch.
Note to Applicant: It is presumed in the Applicant’s consultation
with BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical plants.
Please confirm that this space has been allocated and an
agreement between the parties has been made. At this time there
seems to be no allocation of such plant shown on the detailed
Plans.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 80
24. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary for connection to a City-owned low-
carbon NES, which may include but are not limited to agreements
which:
(a) Require buildings within the development to connect to the
City-owned low carbon NES;
(b) Grant the operator of the City-owned low carbon NEU
access to the building(s) mechanical system and thermal
energy system-related infrastructure within the
development for the purpose of enabling NEU connection
and operation, on such terms and conditions as may be
reasonably required by the Applicant;
(c) Grant the City Engineer, and other employees of the city,
use of and access to suitable space required for the
purposes of an energy transfer station; and
(d) Grant the City Engineer, and other employees of the city,
use of and access to suitable space required for the
Neighbourhood Energy Room for the purpose of
peaking/backup heat production and waste heat recovery
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The development of each respective building on
the Rezoning Site will be required to connect to the City-owned
low carbon NEU prior to occupancy if the General Manager of
Engineering Services deems a connection is available and
appropriate at the time of development permit issuance; if
connection is required, the Owner will be prohibited from entering
into any third-party energy supply contract for thermal energy
services, unless otherwise approved by the by the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
Environmental Contamination
25. Submit a completed Site Profile or Site Profile Exemption Form
certifying that the Rezoning Site is exempt from the requirement to
submit a Site Profile and providing the basis for that exemption
with documentation from the Province satisfactory to the City
Manager.
26. The Property Owner is responsible for fulfilling the requirements of
Section 571(b) of the Vancouver Charter and shall, as required by
the City Manager in his/her discretion, do all things and/or enter

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 81
into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter.
27. The Property Owner shall, as required by the City Manager in
his/her discretion, do all things and/or enter into such agreements
deemed necessary to address remediation and management of
contaminated media that needs to be undertaken as a result of the
development, including:
(a) Remediation of contaminants with respect to the
Rezoning Site that satisfy Provincial requirements;
(b) Remediation of contaminants that have migrated or could
hereafter migrate from the Rezoning Site onto any City
lands that satisfy Provincial requirements and any existing
relevant Agreements and meet the City’s Streets Policy or
Provincial standards acceptable for the City’s use or
proposed uses as provided for in the NEFC Plan or the
rezoning conditions for the Rezoning Site;
(c) Remediation of contaminants on any lands being
transferred to the City, including but not limited to,
dedicated lands that satisfy Provincial requirements and
meets City’s Streets Policy or the Provincial numeric
standards applicable to the intended use of the
transferred lands by the City after the transfer or
dedication; and
(d) Remediation and/or management of contaminants on any
roads, sidewalks and utility corridors which are related to
any part of the servicing of or for the Rezoning Site or the
development thereon, to the satisfaction to the City
Manager.
28. The Property Owner shall enter into agreements (or cause to be
entered into by the Provincial Government if to the extent that the
Pacific Place Approach applies to any of the Rezoning Site or off-
site City lands) with the City, including a Utility Design Agreement
and/or Remediation Agreement, satisfactory to the City Manager,
providing for:
(a) The remediation and/or management of any contaminated
media on the Rezoning Site or lands related to site
servicing to the Rezoning Site, including providing for the
completion of the remediation and executing an indemnity
agreement which indemnifies the City against all liability,
damage or costs which may be incurred as a result of the
presence of any contamination on the Rezoning Site,
including presence of contaminants that have migrated

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 82
from the Rezoning Site, or on any City lands that are
required for Site Services; and
(b) The construction and installation of all remedial works,
including monitoring systems for, among other things,
water discharges and ground water flows, and other
remedial works or systems that service the development
and indemnifying the City against any liability or costs
which may be incurred as a result of the presence of
contaminants on the Rezoning Site, presence of
contaminants off-site that must be managed as a result of
site servicing for the development and presence of
contaminants that have migrated from the Rezoning Site.
29. The Property Owner shall Execute an Occupancy Restrictive
Agreement, including a Section 219 Covenant, that there will be
no occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the Rezoning
Site constructed pursuant to this rezoning until applicable
Provincial Instruments of Approval, certifying that the Rezoning
Site and all lands transferred or dedicated to the City have been
remediated, are provided to the City and all obligations under the
applicable Remediation Agreements, Utilities Design Agreements
and/or Services Agreements have been met to the satisfaction of
the City Manager.
Public Art
30. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy and the NEFC Public
Art Plan, such agreement to provide for security in a form and
amount satisfactory to the aforesaid officials; and provide
development details to the satisfaction of the Public Art Program
Manager.
Note to Owner/developer: Please call Eric Frederickson, Senior
Cultural Planner, 604-871-6002, to discuss the application.
Planning
31. Execution of a Statutory Right-of-Way for the waterfront public
plaza which will include provisions to secure community access
(consistent with an approved plaza stewardship strategy) and
priority use of the plazas for the general public and priority use of
the plaza for the operator(s) of the music presentation centre, as
well as the general public.
Note to Applicant: The Applicant and/or property owner(s) of the
commercial spaces and any Remainder Parcel(s) including all the

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 83
retail and/or office spaces (for certainty expressly excluding the
residential component of the development) will be responsible for
covering the ongoing costs (maintenance, repair and capital) for
the waterfront plaza.
32. Execution of a Statutory Right(s)-of-Way for highly visible, inviting
and accessible public access to the civic centre rooftop terrace
from grade at the waterfront and from inside the civic centre.
A combination of sculptural stairs, stepping terraces and elevator
access should be considered.
Note to Applicant: The Applicant and/or property owner(s) of the
commercial spaces and any Remainder Parcel(s) including the
retail and/or office spaces (for certainty expressly excluding the
residential component of the development) will be responsible for
covering all of the ongoing costs (maintenance, repair and capital)
public rooftop terraces.
33. Arrangements for the execution of covenants on title for initial and
future purchasers, and notices in rental agreements, inclusion in
marketing and disclosure documents and signage on buildings, to
notify residents that their dwelling unit is located in an Events and
Entertainment District and to advise of anticipated noise levels.
34. Execute an Inner-City Local Employment and Procurement
Agreement between the Applicant and the City identifying and
committing to local employment and procurement targets across
the life-cycle of the development project up to and potentially
including post-occupancy all on terms and conditions to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services.
35. Local Buyers First — The Applicant’s voluntary commitment to
support residents who live or work in Metro Vancouver by giving
them the first opportunity to purchase new pre-sale homes in the
new development on the Rezoning Site, which includes the
following:
(a) For the first 30 calendar days after the launch of the
“pre-sales marketing campaign” for each phase of this
development (the “Exclusive Local Buyer Period”), only
those who live or work in Metro Vancouver will be eligible
to purchase homes in this development, and all such
buyers will be required by the Applicant to sign a statutory
declaration attesting that they presently live or work in
Metro Vancouver, and that they intend to occupy the unit
they are purchasing.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 84
(b) The text of the statutory declaration will be agreed upon in
advance of the rezoning enactment by the Applicant and
the City’s Director of Legal Services.
(c) There shall be no foreign marketing during this Exclusive
Local Buyer Period.
(d) No buyer shall be allowed to purchase more than one (1)
unit within this Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
Sustainability
36. Enter into an agreement with the City, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the Director of
Legal Services, that requires the future owners of all buildings on
the Rezoning Site to report energy use data, on an aggregated
basis, for the building as a whole and certain common areas and
building systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the
hiring of a qualified service provider to assist the building owners
for a minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy
use data to the City.
37. Enter into an agreement to secure Condition (b)43 and 44 to the
satisfaction of the Director of Sustainability and Director of Legal
Services, including, if so determined, a section 219 Covenant
registered on title and the provision of letters of credit to secure
the satisfactory completion of the Post Occupancy Study for each
building prior to development permit issuance in an amount and
on terms satisfactory to the Director of Sustainability and Director
of Legal Services.
Housing
38. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services in consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services and the Director of Facilities Planning
and Development, to secure the Applicant’s obligation to design,
build and deliver to the City turnkey social housing units which
comprise no less than 20% of the proposed residential floor area
of the Rezoning Site, being no less than 321,000 sq. ft. of the floor
area (for certainty, excluding balconies) and a minimum of 380
units, and associated parking, amenity and bike storage for such
social housing, all contained within a single fee-simple remainder
or air space parcel or at most two fee-simple remainder or air
space parcels (with shared systems maintained by the market
residential airspace parcel strata or commercial airspace parcel
strata/owner, as applicable, with fair and equitable sharing of costs
related thereto), transferred to the City (free and clear of any
financial charges, liens and other encumbrances). The agreement

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 85
or agreements to secure this obligation, including a Construction
and Transfer Agreement and Option to Purchase Agreements, will
address, but not be limited to, the following issues:
(a) Total floor area must be at least 20% of the proposed
residential floor area for the Rezoning Site, being no less
than 321,000 sq. ft. with a minimum of 380 units (excluding
balconies);
(b) Storage spaces must be provided as part of the above
floor area;
(c) Vehicle and bicycle parking to be provided is not included
in the above floor area;
(d) Breakdown of unit types (i.e. studios, one-bedroom units,
two-bedroom units, three-bedroom units and accessible
units, etc.), sizes, parking numbers and finish
specifications must be as per the City’s Housing Design
and Technical Guidelines;
(e) Unit design and associated storage and amenity space
must be as per the City’s High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines;
(f) The air space parcel/remainder for the social housing to be
owned by the City must be designed to be as autonomous
as possible, with design considerations maximizing the
efficiency and minimizing the cost of operations over the
life of the project and within the larger development; and
(g) All units must be designed and delivered in compliance
with the Housing Design and Technical Guidelines.
39. Grant the City an option to purchase(s), for a nominal purchase
price, the social housing air space/remainder parcel(s) or such
portions of the Rezoning Site, as deemed necessary by Director of
Legal Services to secure the transfer to the City of all the social
housing units to be delivered.
40. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services to enter into a Housing Agreement applicable
to the social housing air space/remainder parcel(s) for 60 years or
the life of the building, whichever is greater, which will contain the
following terms and conditions:
(a) A no separate sales covenant;

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 86
(b) A no stratification covenant;
(c) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less
than one month at a time;
(d) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of
“social housing” as defined in the applicable DCL By-law;
and
(e) This condition will be secured by a Housing Agreement to
be entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
41. The Applicant must transfer and deliver the Social Housing to the
City as follows:
(a) In Sub-area B of the Rezoning Site delivery by end of Q4
2024 (but under no circumstances later than end of Q4
2026, with the goal to deliver as soon as possible); and
(b) In Sub-area A of the Rezoning Site delivery by end of Q4
2026 (but under no circumstances later than end of Q4
2028, with the goal to deliver as soon as possible).
Civic Facilities
42. Enter into one or more agreements, as required by the Director of
Legal Services in consultation with the Director of Facilities
Planning and Development, General Manager of Parks and
Recreation and Managing Director of Social Development, to
secure the Applicant’s obligation to design, build and deliver to the
City a turnkey civic centre of at least 79,235 sq. ft. (plus access
rights to outdoor space for the childcare facility) which will include
a community centre, sports centre/ice rink and childcare facility, all
within a fee-simple airspace parcel to be transferred to the City
(with shared systems maintained by the market residential strata
or commercial airspace parcel, as applicable, with fair and
equitable sharing of costs related thereto). The agreement or
agreements to secure the delivery of the civic centre, including
Construction and Transfer Agreements and Option to Purchase
Agreements will address but not be limited to the following:
(a) The civic centre will be designed and constructed at the
sole cost of the Applicant, including a functional program to
be completed and approved by the Director of Facilities
Planning and Development;
(b) The civic centre will include parking and loading spaces as
required by City by-laws. If the parking and loading spaces

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 87
are not included within the City’s air space parcel then the
tenure for such spaces must be acceptable to the City and
at no cost to the City;
Note to Applicant: parking and loading spaces will be in
addition to the 79,235 sq. ft. civic centre;
(c) Location and design of the civic centre must be approved
by the City/Park Board;
(d) Designated bicycle and vehicle parking for the civic
facilities, as required by the Parking By-law; and
(e) To be transferred to the City free and clear of any financial
charges, liens or other encumbrances.
43. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services, in consultation with the General Manager of Real Estate
and Facilities Management and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services, to secure the provision of a
69-space childcare facility, co-located in the civic centre, within the
same airspace parcel to be transferred to the City. To secure this
condition the Applicant will enter into agreements which will
include, but not limited to, the following requirements:
(a) construction and delivery of a fully fit, finished, equipped
and supplied 69-space childcare facility which meets the
City’s Childcare Design Guidelines and Childcare
Technical Guidelines;
(b) the childcare facility will have a total indoor area of at least
765 sq. m (8,235 sq. ft.), and not less than 745 sq. m
(8,020 sq. ft.) of outdoor space, contiguous for each
program, dedicated parking stalls, sufficient spaces for
storage and a dedicated garbage room; and
(c) The Applicant must deliver the childcare facility to the City
by the end of Q4 2026 (with the goal to deliver as soon as
possible).
44. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services, in consultation with the General Manager of Real Estate
and Facilities Management and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services, to secure the delivery of the
in-kind CACs for the provision a community centre, all within the
same airspace parcel as the civic centre, to be transferred to the
City. To secure this condition the Applicant will enter into
agreements to secure the delivery of the community centre
including construction and transfer agreements and option to

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 88
purchase agreements, which will include, but may not be limited
to, the following requirements:
(a) construction and delivery of a 40,000 sq. ft. community
centre meeting the City’s/Park Board specifications and
programming requirements, including amenity and storage
spaces. The design of the community centre should meet
the intent of the Recreational Facility Technical Guidelines;
and
(b) The Applicant must deliver the community centre to the
City by the end of Q4 2026 (with the goal to deliver as
soon as possible).
45. Enter into one of more agreements, as required by the Director of
Legal Services in consultation with the Director of Facilities
Planning and Development, and the General Manager of Parks
and Recreation to build and deliver a turnkey sports centre
including a 21,000 sq. ft. ice rink to be designed to meet NHL Ice
Rink Specifications and City/Park Board Specifications and
Programming Requirements, and required parking, amenity and
storage space and 10,000 sq. ft. of related Community Use
Spaces to meet City/Park Board Specifications and Programming
Requirements, including spaces such as change rooms, spectator
seating and skate rentals, and required parking, amenity and
storage space, all within the same airspace parcel as the civic
centre to be transferred to the City. The agreement or agreements
to secure this obligation, including a lease agreement between the
City and the Applicant for the operation of the ice rink by the
Applicant, will address but not be limited to the following:
(a) The City and Applicant confirm that the hours of operation
of the Ice Rink allocated to the Vancouver Canucks will be
between 6 am and 12 pm, 5 days per week, and that the
City will have complete control to program the Ice Rink
outside these hours, except that the City/Park Board agree
with the Applicant that there shall be public “Mens’,
Womens’ and Youth Hockey League” time plus other public
use (i.e. public skating) time allocated between 6 pm and
12 am, 5 days per week (all such requirements to be set
out in a separate lease agreement between the Applicant
and the City/Park Board);
(b) Any additional spaces within this facility required for
exclusive Vancouver Canucks use are not to be accounted
for within this CAC benefits package, and will not be
factored into the reconciliation of costs for this facility; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 89
(c) The required lease agreement will also include provisions
that:
(i) The Applicant shall operate, clean and maintain
(including capital maintenance), at its sole cost and
expense, the Ice Rink to NHL and City/Park Board
requirements, meeting all Federal, Provincial and
BC Safety Authority & WorkSafeBC requirements,
and the City/Park Board shall operate and maintain
the Community Use Spaces;
(ii) If the Canucks no longer need this space, the lease
will terminate;
(iii) Due to proximity to nearby residential units, the ice
plant/chiller will be the safest form of technology
available for such purposes (with written
confirmation from the BC Safety Authority and
WorkSafeBC);
(iv) The Applicant confirms that any Shortfall in
Maintenance and Operating Costs (“Shortfall in
Maintenance and Operating Costs” means the net
negative amount (if any) of all costs incurred by the
City/Park Board in maintaining and operating this
Sports Centre, or a portion thereof, (including staff
salaries and benefits) minus any revenues received
from charging entry fees for use or renting out the
centre.) will be paid by the Applicant to the
City/Park Board;
(v) The Applicant will deliver the Ice Rink and
Community Use Space to the City by the end of Q4
2026 (with the goal to deliver as soon as possible;
(vi) All on terms and conditions to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services and the General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management; and
(vii) The Applicant and/or property owner(s) of the
commercial spaces including the retail and/or office
spaces (for certainty expressly excluding the
residential component of the development) will be
responsible for covering the ongoing costs
(maintenance and capital) for the ice rink and
community use space.

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 90
46. Enter into one or more agreements, as required by the Director of
Legal Services in consultation with the Director of Facilities
Planning and Development, and the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, to secure the
Applicant’s obligation to design, build and deliver to the City a
turn-key public plaza (central plaza) of approximately 2,800 sq. m
(30,139 sq. ft.), all within a fee-simple airspace parcel, extending
from above the parking structure membrane (if located above the
parking structure) to a sufficient height as agreed to with City staff,
or within a dirt site (if no parking structure underneath), all
transferred to City ownership (free and clear of any financial
charges, liens and other encumbrances, and meeting all
environmental conditions/remediation requirements). The
Applicant will deliver the Public Plaza by the end of Q4 2028 (with
the goal to deliver as soon as possible). The central plaza must
meet the City’s design standards of public realm and public
spaces and be designed in consultation with City staff.
47. The Applicant shall enter into a separate license agreement with
the City allowing the Applicant to manage, maintain, operate and
program the central plaza (in consultation with the City, under a
public space stewardship model per the NEFC Plan on terms and
conditions to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability, including ensuring that such
programming is not in conflict with the City’s policies and
reputational objectives), in consideration for the Applicant cleaning
and maintaining (including recapitalization, as necessary) and
being fully responsible for this space at no cost to the City. The
Applicant and/or property owner(s) of the commercial spaces
including the retail and/or office spaces (for certainty expressly
excluding the residential component of the development) will be
responsible for covering the ongoing costs (maintenance and
capital) for the central plaza.
48. The Applicant has agreed that the in-kind community amenity
contributions for the Civic Facilities, including the Community
Centre, Ice Rink, and Public Plaza represent “cash allowances”
with an upset limit as follows:
(a) Community Centre $41,710,500;
(b) Sports Centre/Ice Rink (and Related Spaces) $25,000,000;
and
(c) Public Plaza $20,000,000.
If the actual costs for each civic facility (verified by an independent
Quantity Surveyor (QS) report hired by the City) are below the
respective cash allowance, the net savings will be for the City’s

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 91
benefit, and paid to the City upon substantial completion of each
of the respective facilities and reconciliation of costs by
aforementioned QS report. For certainty, if the actual costs exceed
these amounts, respectively, the Applicant will be responsible for
and pay such additional costs without offset to any other items
within this CAC Benefits Package.
49. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services in consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services and the Director of Facilities Planning
and Development for the building and provision of a music
presentation centre in no less than 20,000 sq. ft., all within a fee-
simple air space parcel which meets the City’s specifications and
programming requirements (including required parking, amenity,
support spaces, storage spaces, and spaces appropriate for
acoustic performance and external sound mitigation). The
Applicant must deliver the music presentation centre by the end of
Q4 2026 (with the goal to deliver as soon as possible).
50. Execute a lease agreement to the satisfaction of the Director of
Legal Services in consultation with the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Facilities
Planning and Development to grant to the City a nominal lease of
the music presentation centre for the life of the building or 90
years (whichever is greater) whereby the City or its delegate(s)
get the right to access and use the music presentation centre (at
no cost of the City of its delegates), including, without limitation:
(a) Exclusive use by the City and its delegate(s) of an
approximately 800 sq. ft. office/administration space;
(b) Exclusive use by the City and its delegate(s) of a venue
(Main Hall) which can accommodate 225 attendees’
seating, with the possibility of adding an additional 100
people in a flex setting;
(c) Exclusive use by the City of a flexible performance space
(Informal Venue) which can accommodate up to 150
attendees standing or up to 100 attendees sitting;
(d) Applicant can use the aforementioned venues when the
City or its delegate(s) is not using them;
(e) All other spaces will be shared with the Applicant; however,
one’s uses cannot override the other party’s use so
sufficient shared space is necessary to ensure the success
of the overall centre; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 92
(f) Other terms to be reasonably negotiated to ensure
achievement of the City’s programmatic outcomes.
Should the parties fail to reach a satisfactory arrangement for the
joint use of this centre (per above), the City shall have a right to
purchase the fee simple interest of this air space parcel (and the
Applicant shall be obligated to transfer the music presentation
centre to the City as an air space parcel) for $10,000,000 (free of
all liens, charges and other encumbrances), and the cash balance
of the CAC will be adjusted accordingly.
General Conditions for In-kind Community Amenity Contributions
51. Prior to and as a condition of enactment of the rezoning by-law for
the Applicant’s obligations to build and transfer to the City all of the
In-Kind Amenities (including Social Housing, Community Centre,
Sports Centre/Ice Rink (and Related Spaces), Childcare Facility
and the central plaza) will be secured by a mortgage in first place
for the full estimated cost of the amenities (verified by an
independent quantity surveyor hired by the City), registered
against the Rezoning Site, all on terms and conditions to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services and the General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management. The condition
that the Applicant will reimburse the City's external legal costs for
due diligence, negotiation and drafting of documentation for such
mortgage. The mortgage will accrue interest at Prime plus 3%,
which interest will be waived and such security discharged if the
in-kind amenities are delivered per the timelines noted in this
report. The full estimated cost is typically the cost to complete and
deliver the in-kind amenities to the City. This includes the costs to
finish and equip, provide all furnishings and equipment; complete
all landscaping, if any; and cover all soft costs such as consultant
design fees and permit fees for the in-kind amenities.
For the mortgage, as long as there is sufficient land value
remaining for the undeveloped residential density or additional
security is provided to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Real Estate and Facilities Management and the Director of Legal
Services, the City will discharge its mortgage from one or more
buildings within each phase of the development as they achieve
occupancy. For certainty, the remaining land value (plus additional
security, if applicable) must be greater than the QS estimate (at
the time of the request for a discharge) for the complete cost to
develop the in-kind amenities still remaining to be delivered to the
City.
52. For all in-kind amenities valued at “cash allowances” (for the
Community Centre, Sports Centre/Ice Rink (and related spaces),
and the central plaza) the Applicant has agreed to provide open

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 93
book accounting with the City to track costs for same, and provide
separate contracts for consultants and contractors where possible
(minimizing comingling of costs with other development costs so
pro rata take offs are reduced) so that the "direct" costs for in-kind
amenities are easily obtained. For clarity, there shall be no "profit"
markup (NIL) for the Applicant (developer of these amenities), but
the Applicant/developer is entitled to a 3% (three percent)
"development/construction management fee" only on the hard and
soft costs. In addition, reasonable financing costs will be allowed,
noting that the Applicant/developer will approach CMHC and BC
Housing to acquire financing from them in order to reduce these
costs.
53. The applicant has agreed to allow the City to withhold the
occupancy permits for all buildings on the Rezoning Site, and the
City has agreed to release such holds from a particular building if
sufficient mortgage security (plus additional security, if required)
as noted herein remains registered on the remaining balance of
the lands to cover the QS’s estimate to complete the development
of the outstanding in-kind amenities at the time of the request for
release of an occupancy permit for that particular building.
54. The terms of the cash and in-kind Community Amenity
Contributions represent an approval in principle, and if no
enactment of the rezoning by-law occurs within 1 year following
the approval by Council at public hearing (unless such delay is
caused by the City), the City may deem (at its sole discretion) that
this CAC offering package is void; in which case, the Applicant will
be required to return to Council at public hearing with a revised
application for approval, including appropriate CAC offering
package at that time.
Community Amenity Contribution – Cash Payments
55. Pay to the City the cash portion of the Community Amenity
Contribution of $100,383,500 (Cash CAC Offering) which the
Applicant has offered to the City and to be allocated to support the
phased delivery of the NEFC Infrastructure Project and critical
infrastructure works in the NEFC Plan associated with Sub-area
6B.
56. Payment of the Cash CAC Offering is to be made as outlined
below, at no cost to the City, and on terms and conditions and in a
form satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services:
(a) Prior to enactment of the rezoning by-law:
(i) $20,000,000 must be paid by bank draft, certified
cheque or wire transfer; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 94
(ii) A letter of credit (“LC”) must be provided for the
deferred payment of $80,383,500 as secured, in
the City’s standard form (see:
http://policy.vancouver.ca/AF00202.pdf), or such
other security as may be satisfactory to the Director
of Legal Services at her sole discretion.
(b) The LC of $80,383,500 will be drawn down by the City on
the following dates/milestones:
(i) $20,000,000 on the date of the first development
permit for any new building on the Rezoning Site;
and
(ii) For the balance of $60,383,500, amounts to be
determined pro rata based upon the percentage of
development floor area (in relation to the floor area
for the full Rezoning Site) approved by each
building permit.
Regardless of the stage, issuance of development permit
or percentage of development of the floor area of the
Rezoning Site approved by building permit(s) the City will
be entitled to draw down the entire remaining balance of
the LC on the date (or next business day) or any time
thereafter that is 5 years after the date of enactment of the
rezoning by-law, For greater certainty, the City is entitled to
payment of the full amount of any deferred cash CAC not
already paid or received by the City on the date that is 5
years after the enactment date of the rezoning by-law for
the Rezoning Site; and
If the Applicant should sell (in whole) its interest in the
development on the Rezoning Site or shares in the
Applicant or corporations which hold legal or beneficial
interest in the Applicant or this Rezoning Site, or portion
thereof, then the City may immediately draw down the
entire remaining balance of the LC upon the closing of
such sale transaction. As well, if the Applicant should sell
any portion its interest on the Rezoning Site or shares in
the Applicant or corporations which hold legal or beneficial
interest in the Applicant or this development or the
Rezoning Site, or any portion, then the City may
immediately draw down the equivalent percentage of the
remaining balance of the LC upon the closing of such sale
transaction.
57. Retain the unique architectural design and resulting floor layout for
the proposed development. If the Applicant chooses to make

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 95
alterations to the elements of the building design which result in
the removal of such premium cost items or increases the sellable
area, then the City may require the Applicant to pay an additional
cash CAC, based on the revised pro forma, prior to building permit
issuance. These were key factors in the pro forma analysis and
resolution of the community benefits offering. As such, the City
has acknowledged several premium cost components in the pro
forma, including the significantly reduced floor layout efficiency
rate at 80%. Furthermore, the reduced floor layout efficiency rate
at 80% reduces the potential sellable area which has a
relationship to the amount of CAC that may be negotiated based
on development economics of the site. Therefore, the building
design, including exterior finishes (as proposed in the application),
will be secured through rezoning conditions, including agreements
registered against title to the Rezoning Site.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the Rezoning Site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the consequential amendment to the False Creek North Official
Development Plan, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 750-772 Pacific
Boulevard – Northeast False Creek Sub-area 6B (Plaza of Nations)”, be
approved.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment after the Housing
Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the applicant and its
mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated in
the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 750-772
Pacific Boulevard – Northeast False Creek Sub-area 6B (Plaza of
Nations)”, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 96
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the
amendment to the Noise Control By law No. 6555, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning: 750-772 Pacific Boulevard – Northeast False Creek Sub-area
6B (Plaza of Nations)”.
E. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the
amendment to the Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of
the Policy Report dated June 5, 2018, entitled “CD 1 Rezoning: 750-772
Pacific Boulevard – Northeast False Creek Sub-area 6B (Plaza of
Nations)”.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights
for the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of
the City and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the
sole risk of the person making the expenditures or incurring the
cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public
Hearing shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the
property, and any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed
as a condition of rezoning are at the sole risk of the property
owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer,
shall not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their
authority or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to
exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03149)
(Councillor Jang absent due to Civic Business on July 12, 2018)

Public Hearing
Minutes, July 10 and 12, 2018 97
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Jang absent due to Civic Business on July 12, 2018)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 9:20 pm on July 12, 2018.
* * * * *