REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 10, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 10, 2018,
at 9:40 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 2
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public;
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – June 19, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of June 19, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Regular Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – June 20, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting of June 20, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Public Hearing – June 26, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing meeting of June 26, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Public Hearing – June 28 and July 4, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing meeting of June 28 and July 4, 2018, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 3
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
Mayor Robertson noted a request to speak to Policy Report 1 had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Policy Report dated June 25, 2018, entitled “Updates to General Policy for
Higher Buildings” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
meeting July 11, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03102)
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council adopt Communication 1, Administrative Reports 1 to 4, and Policy
Reports 2 to 8, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Arts and Culture
Sandra Singh, General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, presented an
overview of 2018 Plans and Accomplishments in Cultural Services and Vancouver Civic
Theatres.
a. Vancouver Music Strategy – Interim Report
July 6, 2018
Sandra Gajic, Director of Civic Theatres provided a presentation on the Vancouver Music
Strategy.
Members of the Vancouver Music Steering Committee and the Vancouver Music Advisory
Committee, spoke in support of the Vancouver Music Strategy.
Branislav Henselman, Managing Director of Cultural Services, Sandra Singh, General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services, and Sadhu Johnston, City Manager, responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council acknowledge that Vancouver is home to a vibrant, diverse and
world-class music industry, which generates significant economic impact,
contributes to community well-being and is a vital part of the city's social, artistic,
and creative ecology.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 4
B. THAT Council approve $400,000 one-time funding to support early initiatives
arising from the extensive Vancouver Music Strategy work to date, as identified
by the Vancouver Music Steering Committee, the Vancouver Music Advisory
Committee, and City staff. The source of funds to be the 2018 Innovation Fund,
allocated to:
i. A temporary full-time staff resource with a focus on the music sector, to
complete the Vancouver Music Strategy final report and deliver on
recommendations, as per the Administrative Report dated July 6, 2018,
entitled “Vancouver Music Strategy – Interim Report”. The final Vancouver
Music Strategy report and recommendations will be aligned with other City of
Vancouver strategies, initiatives, and policies; and,
ii. Grants to Vancouver-based, music-focused projects aligning with the current
directions identified in the above-noted report.
C. THAT Council direct staff to explore opportunities to further align and leverage
the funding in B above, through alignment with Cultural Services grants, and
partnerships with existing programs at all three levels of government, including
Creative BC’s Music Fund, the Department of Canadian Heritage’s Canada
Spaces Fund, and FACTOR.
D. THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate and execute any agreements required to partner with other
agencies as described in C above, on the terms and conditions set out
Administrative Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Vancouver Music Strategy –
Interim Report” and such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of
Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03103)
b. Making Space for Arts and Culture: 2018 Cultural Infrastructure Plan
June 11, 2018
Alix Sales, Senior Cultural Planner, provided a presentation on the above-noted report, and
responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council direct Cultural Services staff to:
i. Develop a planning, support and decision framework as well as city-wide
targets for arts and cultural spaces that consider community need, the
pace of development, displacement and population growth;
ii. Review and update the Cultural Infrastructure Grant guidelines to improve
access, security of tenure, partnership and leveraging opportunities and
funding levels for different types and scales of projects;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 5
iii. Work with Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, Development,
Buildings and Licensing, Long-term Financial Strategy, and Legal
Services to explore policies, zoning, regulatory and other tools to enable
partnerships to secure, enhance and develop affordable, accessible arts
and cultural spaces citywide;
iv. Work with Long-term Financial Strategy to:
(a) Continue to advocate to the Province for the “Split Tax Bill”
approach;
(b) Explore options for a time-limited City stabilization fund to assist
arts and cultural nonprofits in crisis due to escalating land values;
v. Work with the Development and Building Regulatory Review and
Development, Buildings and Licensing to explore opportunities to remove
barriers and streamline regulations and processes for arts and cultural
spaces and activities;
vi. Develop a framework to engage with Musqueam, Squamish and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and Urban Indigenous communities on ways to
improve support for more visibility on the land and self-determined
cultural spaces;
vii. Work with Real Estate and Facilities Management to engage the
community and partners on planning and feasibility studies of City-owned
spaces, including Vanier Park cultural institutions master planning,
Orpheum upgrades and Firehall Theatre renewal and renovation plans;
viii. Work with other City teams and departments, as appropriate, to integrate
cultural spaces into City-owned spaces such as community centres,
housing projects, social spaces, libraries and other spaces; and
ix. Explore opportunities and partnerships to support increased knowledge
sharing and research that includes joining the World Cities Culture
Forum.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03086)
2. City Support for Free Outdoor Public Events
May 28, 2018
At 11:50 am, Councillor Bremner declared a conflict of interest related to the above-noted report
as he has worked on recent projects that would be affected by this report.
Mayor Robertson noted requests to speak for Report Reference 2 had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 6
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer the report dated May 28, 2018, entitled “City Support for Free
Outdoor Public Events” to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
meeting on July 11, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03118)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote, due to Conflict of Interest)
Note: Council also agreed to hear the related presentation at the July 11, meeting.
* * * * *
At 11:54 am,
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT under Section 9.8 of the Procedure By-law, Council reconsider the vote on a
motion at the same meeting, to correct Minutes 2 – Regular Council (Policy and
Strategic Priorities) – June 20, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting of June 20, 2018, be approved with the following
change:
 Page 18, Item 4 b. “Making Room Housing Program: Overview and Quick Start
Actions”, part J, the vote should strike “and Bremner opposed to J,” and replace
with “and De Genova opposed to J,”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03101)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:58 am and reconvened at 2:10 pm.
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 7
VARY THE AGENDA
At 2:10 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with Unfinished Business Item 4 as
the next item of business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
Note: For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
4. TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A Districts
Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies
On June 28 and July 4, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public Hearing
on the above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments,
referred discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, as
Unfinished Business.
Councillors De Genova, Jang and Reimer advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the
portions of the Public Hearing they had missed and would therefore be participating in
discussion and decision on the application.
Helen Ma, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, referred to the memorandum dated
July 9, 2018, from the General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability which
provided responses to questions sent to staff by Mayor and Council on July 4, 2018, related to
the Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and
HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
Ms. Ma, along with Paul Cheng and Tom Wanklin, both from Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the HA-1 and HA-1A Districts
Schedule of the Zoning and Development By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to
the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and
Policies”, to introduce:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 8
(i) maximum net Floor Space Ratios;
(ii) maximum building heights in floors within the current maximum height in
metres;
(iii) requirements to provide non-residential uses;
(iv) provisions for retail mezzanine and laneway retail spaces;
(v) maximum widths for development sites (i.e. site frontage); and
(vi) maximum widths for storefronts.
B. THAT, at the time of any enactment of the proposed amendments to the HA-1
and HA-1A Districts Schedule, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council approval
consequential amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 Design Guidelines and the
Chinatown HA-1A Design Guidelines, generally as set out in Appendix B of the
Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown
HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the proposed amendments to the HA-1 and
HA-1A Districts Schedule, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval consequential amendments to the Parking By-law
generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A
Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
D. THAT Council revoke the Rezoning Policy for Chinatown South (HA-1A) and that
the General Manager of Planning, Urban and Sustainability be instructed to not
consider any further applications under this policy except for the application
which has been received and is under review for 728-798 Main Street;
FURTHER THAT Council revise the Rezoning Policy for the Downtown Eastside
and the Downtown Eastside Plan in order to remove certain references to
rezoning in Chinatown, generally in accordance with Appendices D and E of the
Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown
HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 9
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as F:
F. THAT Chinatown be zoned as one district – HA-1 and that:
a) The maximum lot width be 25 feet or the current lot width;
b) The maximum outright height be the height of existing buildings;
and
c) The maximum conditional height be 50 feet, conditional on 100
percent social housing.
not put not having received a seconder
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the following be added to A:
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment a
by-law to enact the proposed amendments, including a further amendment to the
Zoning and Development By-law that allows for the Director of Planning to relax
the provisions of the HA-1A District, where merited, in order to allow for
residential uses on the second floor of buildings that are less than 70 feet in
height.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03105)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion was amended as put. Council agreed to separate
the components of the motion for the vote and CARRIED with Councillors Affleck, Bremner and
De Genova opposed to A and D (Vote Nos. 03106 and 03109), Councillor De Genova opposed
to B, C, and E (Vote Nos. 03107, 03108, 03110) and Councillor Ball absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the HA-1 and HA-1A Districts
Schedule of the Zoning and Development By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to
the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and
Policies”, to introduce:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 10
(i) maximum net Floor Space Ratios;
(ii) maximum building heights in floors within the current maximum height in
metres;
(iii) requirements to provide non-residential uses;
(iv) provisions for retail mezzanine and laneway retail spaces;
(v) maximum widths for development sites (i.e. site frontage); and
(vi) maximum widths for storefronts.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment a
by-law to enact the proposed amendments, including a further amendment to the
Zoning and Development By-law that allows for the Director of Planning to relax
the provisions of the HA-1A District, where merited, in order to allow for
residential uses on the second floor of buildings that are less than 70 feet in
height.
B. THAT, at the time of any enactment of the proposed amendments to the HA-1
and HA-1A Districts Schedule, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council approval
consequential amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 Design Guidelines and the
Chinatown HA-1A Design Guidelines, generally as set out in Appendix B of the
Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown
HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the proposed amendments to the HA-1 and
HA-1A Districts Schedule, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval consequential amendments to the Parking By-law
generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A
Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
D. THAT Council revoke the Rezoning Policy for Chinatown South (HA-1A) and that
the General Manager of Planning, Urban and Sustainability be instructed to not
consider any further applications under this policy except for the application
which has been received and is under review for 728-798 Main Street;
FURTHER THAT Council revise the Rezoning Policy for the Downtown Eastside
and the Downtown Eastside Plan in order to remove certain references to
rezoning in Chinatown, generally in accordance with Appendices D and E of the
Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown
HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 11
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
1. REZONING: Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
On June 26, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at the Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, as Unfinished
Business.
Councillors De Genova, Jang, and Mayor Robertson advised they had reviewed the
proceedings of the Public Hearing they had missed and would therefore be participating in
discussion and decision on the application.
Andrew Pask and Paul Cheng, both from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded
to questions.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated July 9, 2018, from the General Manager,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommending an amendment to the draft “By-law
to amend the Zoning Development By-law No. 3575 to create new district schedules, amend C-
2, and rezone certain designated areas in Grandview-Woodland” to add a relaxation for
buildings listed on the Vancouver Heritage Register.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law to achieve the following:
(i) Create new district schedules for RM-11, RM-11N, and RM-12N zoning
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-
Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law” and the memo dated July 9, 2018, from the General Manager,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability;
(ii) Amend the C-2 District Schedule generally as set out in Appendix A of the
above Policy Report;
(iii) Revise Schedule F of the Zoning and Development By-law as set out in
Appendix A of the above Policy Report; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 12
(iv) Rezone those areas shown outlined in bold in Schedule A of Appendix A
of the above Policy Report from RS-1, RS-5, RS-7, RT-4, RT-5, and
RT-5N to RM-11, RM-11N, RM-12N, or C-2;
in order to increase opportunities for housing choice and strengthen shopping
nodes.
B. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for the
new RM-11, RM-11N, and RM-12N districts, generally as set out in Appendix B of
the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice in
Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws,
related amendments to the Parking By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing
Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law”.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws,
related amendments to the Subdivision By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing
Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law”.
E. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council adoption RM-11 and
RM-11N Guidelines, and RM-12N Guidelines, generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing
Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law”.
FURTHER THAT subsection 5.2 be added under section 5, Relaxation of
Regulations, to the RM-11 and RM-11N Districts Schedule contained in Schedule
B within the draft “By-law to amend the Zoning Development By-law No. 3575 to
create new district schedules, amend C-2, and rezone certain designated areas
in Grandview-Woodland” as follows:
5.2 The Director of Planning may relax the provisions of this Districts
Schedule regarding site area, frontage, height, required yards and
setbacks, site coverage, horizontal angle of daylight, acoustics, external
design, and number of buildings on a site when a building listed on the
Vancouver Heritage Register is retained, if consideration is first given to
the intent of this Schedule and all applicable Council policies and
guidelines.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 13
F. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council adoption amended C-2
Guidelines generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland –
Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”.
G. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council adoption related
amendments to the Strata Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones, generally in
accordance with Appendix D of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled
“Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law”.
H. THAT A through G above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
I. THAT Council direct staff to undertake additional technical analysis and public
consultation on potential land use changes in the following areas, as part of the
next phase of Grandview-Woodland Community Plan implementation:
(i) “Nanaimo East” area, along Nanaimo Street/North Nanaimo Street from
East Hastings Street to Wall Street;
(ii) 2300-block of Charles Street (south side) / Kitchener Street (north side);
and
(iii) 2400-block of East 12th Avenue (south side) / Grandview Highway North.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03111)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 14
* * * * *
VARY THE AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with the By-laws, New Business,
and Enquiries next.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
* * * * *
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 9 and 11 to 19 inclusive,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
1. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 Miscellaneous
Amendments regarding RT-5 and RT-5N rear yard depth and dwelling unit density,
Temporary Sales Offices and other housekeeping amendments (By-law No. 12149)
2. A By-law to amend Downtown Eastside Oppenheimer Official Development Plan By-law
No. 5532 (Housekeeping Amendment) (By-law No. 12150)
3. A By-law to amend Sign By-law no. 11879 regarding miscellaneous housekeeping
amends regarding window signs, fascia signs and housekeeping (By-law No. 12151)
4. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 regarding construction exemptions
(By-law No. 12152)
5. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (400 West Georgia Street and 725-731 Homer Street) (By-law No. 12153)
6. A By-law to amend Building By-law No. 10908 regarding electric vehicle charging
stations and bicycle end of trip facilities (By-law No. 12154)
7. A By-law to amend Electrical By-law No. 5563 regarding electric vehicle charging
stations (By-law No. 12155)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 15
8. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 regarding electric vehicle charging stations
and bicycle end of trip facilities (By-law No. 12156)
9. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (3868-3898 Rupert Street and 3304-3308 East 22nd Avenue) (By-law No. 12157)
(Mayor Robertson and Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote)
11. A By-law to amend License By-law No. 4450 regarding a new license category Retail
Dealer – Cannabis (By-law No. 12158)
12. A By-law to amend Downtown Official Development Plan By-law No. 4912 regarding
new Retail Use – Cannabis Store (By-law No. 12159)
13. A By-law to amend Downtown Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan By-law
No. 5532 regarding new Retail Use – Cannabis Store (By-law No. 12160)
14. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3681 Victoria Drive and 1915 Stainsbury
Avenue (By-law No. 12161)
15. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage Property (6 West 7th
Avenue – Turner Dairy) (By-law No. 12162)
16. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1296 West Broadway (By-law No. 12163)
17. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1715 Cook Street (By-law No. 12164)
18. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 155 East 37th Avenue (Little Mountain)
(By-law No. 12165)
(Councillor Louie ineligible for the vote)
19. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2109 East Hastings Street
(By-law No. 12166)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 10 be referred to the
Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on City Finance and
Services meeting on July 11, 2018, to allow staff to provide clarification.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
10. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 regarding a new Retail
Use – Cannabis Store

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 16
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT Councillor Stevenson be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business
for meetings to be held on July 17, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Stevenson be granted a Leave of Absence for
Personal reasons for meetings to be held on July 31, 2018.
B. THAT Councillor Ball be granted a Leave of Absence for Medical Leave for
meetings to be held July 26, 30, 31, August 2, and September 5 and 6, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03085)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
2. Appointment of Deputy Mayor
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
WHEREAS on July 9, 2018, Councillor Stevenson submitted a letter to the Mayor in
which he resigned from the Deputy Mayor position, effective July 19, 2018.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council appoints Councillor Heather Deal as
Deputy Mayor for a term to begin July 20, 2018 and end November 4, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03091)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Harbourside Park Plaza
Councillor Carr received an email regarding public use of Harbourside Park Towers Plaza which
was created as part of a CD-1 rezoning as a public plaza. She requested more information
regarding the issue of people being prohibited from using public spaces. The City Manager
agreed to provide an update.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 17
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
2. REZONING: 1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive
On June 26, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at the Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, as Unfinished
Business.
Councillors De Genova and Jang advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the Public
Hearing they had missed and would therefore be participating in discussion and decision on the
application.
Mateja Seaton, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application by Perkins+Will on behalf of Grandview Woodland Project
(Nominee) Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 1837-1857 East 11th Avenue
and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive [Strata Lots 1 and 2, all of District Lot 264A, Strata
Plan VR. 2475; Lots 21, 22 and 23 Except: the North 5 feet now lane, all of Lots
C and D, Block 162, District Lot 264A, Plans 1059 and 1771; Lots A, B, C and D,
all of Lots C and D, Block 162, District Lot 264A, Plan 2728; PIDs:014-713-195,
014- 713-209, 014-861-411, 014-861-429,003-923-533, 004-120-060, 013-491-
890, 013-491-911 and 013-491-920 respectively] from RM-4 (Multiple Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 1.45 to 3.60 and the maximum building height from
10.7 m (35 ft.) to 33.5 m (110 ft.) to permit the development of an 11-storey
building with a five-storey podium comprised of a mixed-tenure of secured
market rental units and strata-titled market housing units, along with the
retention, relocation, designation and protection of a heritage home at 1853-1857
East 11th Avenue, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and
2631-2685 Victoria Drive” be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Perkins+Will, and stamped “Received
City Planning Department, December 18, 2017”, subject to the following
conditions, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 18
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce the perceived massing of the
frame expression to be more compatible with the residential
character of the streetscape.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by varying the frame
composition at the corners, base or upper storey.
2. Design development to comply with allowable building height.
Note to Applicant: The maximum achievable building height is
33.5 m (110 ft.). If rooftop access is to be excluded from the
calculation of height, it must be provided in accordance with
Section 10 of the Zoning and Development By-Law and
Roof-mounted Energy Technologies and Green Roofs –
Discretionary Height Increases Bulletin.
3. Design development to improve residential common amenities:
(i) Introduce opportunities for children’s outdoor play area for
various ages in line with the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by replacing the dog run
area with children’s outdoor play area. Play equipment is not
required, nor encouraged, for the children's play areas, but a soft
surface play area and a variety of creative landscape/play features
(such as balancing logs and boulders, opportunities for sand play
or a small and tangible water stream or feature, creative
motor-skills developing features etc.), which provide a myriad of
creative play opportunities for a range of ages, is encouraged.
(ii) Provide a more usable south-facing outdoor space
contiguous with the amenity room.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by increasing
depth by a minimum of 3 ft. and access provided from
amenity room. See also Landscape Condition #17.
4. Design development to maintain the high quality and durable
exterior finishes consistent with the rezoning application, to be
included in the Development Permit drawings.
5. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the building
is encouraged in the application for a development permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 19
Heritage
6. Design development on the window treatment on the lane side of
the heritage house to make it more compatible with historic
precedents.
Housing
7. Prior to development permit issuance, revised drawings and
information shall be submitted to the satisfaction of the Director of
Planning, clearly indicating the proposed total unit mix of studio
(38.4 percent), one-bedroom (17.4 percent), two-bedroom (34.1
percent) and two plus-bedroom (10.1 percent) units, and in
accordance with the Family Room: Housing Mix Policy for
Rezoning Projects, ensure a minimum 25 percent two-bedroom
units and a minimum 10 percent three-bedroom units for all
strata-titled market housing units, and a minimum 35 percent
two-bedroom units or more for all secured market rental
residential units, in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in unit mix from the proposed
rezoning application may be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it
does not go lower than 35 percent of the dwelling units designed
to be suitable for families with children.
8. Provision of the completed Tenant Relocation Application Form
which includes a list outlining the name of each tenant, the
number of the tenant’s unit, the size of unit, the type of unit, and
their rent, as per Section 6.1(a) of the Tenant Relocation and
Protection Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted
with the development permit application.
9. Provision of a Tenant Relocation Plan as per Section 2.1 of the
Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy.
10. Provision of a notarized declaration to be submitted prior to
issuance of a development permit which demonstrates that each
tenant has been given written notice of the intent to develop the
property; that indicates the number of units occupied on the date
of the notice; includes information on posting of notice regarding
the intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and includes copies
of a letter addressed to each tenant summarizing the Tenant
Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each tenant.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 20
11. Provision of a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior
to issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the names of
tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for alternate
accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value given to
each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other compensation); and
includes a summary of all communication provided to the tenants.
12. The building is to comply with the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity
room with kitchenette (and an accessible washroom adjacent to
this amenity room).
Note to Applicant: Design development to co-locate indoor and
outdoor amenity spaces, either on ground floor or 6th floor.
13. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
secured market rental housing is being provided as part of the City
of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and location to be
approved by the City.
14. Correction of number of strata units on “Unit Schedule L06” table
from 6 to 7.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
15. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
16. Design development to the north-facing outdoor space on Level 1
to provide other programmed uses besides a Dog Run, achieving
a more diverse space for common use (see also Urban Design
Condition #3.(i)).
Note to Applicant: The use of Artificial Turf is not supported and
should be replaced with a natural surface material.
17. Design development to enlarge and expand programming for the
south-facing outdoor space on Level 1, achieving more balanced,
contiguous indoor-outdoor Amenity areas. The larger outdoor
space should include additional soft landscape and be articulated
for various common uses, which encourage social interaction (see
also Urban Design Condition #3.(ii)).

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 21
18. Design development to clearly integrate sustainable rainwater
management features and strategies into the landscape plan.
19. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
20. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should be coordinated
with the architectural Site Plan. The Landscape Plan
should illustrate proposed plant materials (with common
and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities), paving,
walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other
landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a
Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The
Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale
and should match the architectural site plan;
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2"=1'-0" scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours
and trellises, and other features. Planter section details
should show dimensioned rootballs to confirm depth of
proposed planting on structures is deep enough to
accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the
future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standard, being
no less than 3’ for trees and 2’ for shrubs (not including
drainage layer);
(iii) A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided
for all planted areas; and
(iv) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
Sustainability
21. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements of
the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended
up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63 points
(LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22 percent reduction in energy
cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration
and application for certification of the project.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 22
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates which
credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their building
application, as submitted, incorporates strategies, features or
technologies that will help achieve these credits. The strategy,
along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated into the
drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional
or Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns
with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the application
and the project registration number incorporated into the
drawings. Application for Certification will be required at a
subsequent stage.
22. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition #21, the applicant
may choose the meet the requirements of the Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017,
or later).
Engineering
23. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
24. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 23
25. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
26. Provision of a garbage staging area adjacent the lane for pick up
purposes.
27. Relocate the proposed benches to private property and use
standard sidewalk treatments for the proposed pavement on
public property for the seating area at the East 11th Avenue and
Victoria Drive corner of the site.
28. Engineering is not currently supportive of the added Allen Block
wall proposal to retain the existing tree along East 11th Avenue.
Please explore other methods to support the tree that do not
include walls on public property. Berming of the back boulevard in
lieu of retention should be explored.
29. Public Bike Share (PBS) is planned for curbside on East 11th
Avenue. The PBS station dimension will be approximately 20 m in
length and located about 6 m west of the intersecting sidewalks at
East 11th Avenue and Victoria Drive. Confirmation that no fire
connection or emergency access is planned along the building
face along East 11th Avenue or to be located in front of the PBS
station is required.
30. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
31. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to engineering for
review.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 24
32. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room and note on drawings.
33. Provision of a plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
34. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Number, dimension and label all parking and loading
spaces.
(ii) Design Development to improve the parking access ramp.
Additional maneuvering width at the lane is required to
accommodate vehicle movement from the lane and to
improve visibility. Confirm two-way traffic flow in the main
ramp – the current ramp design does not appear to have
the required width through the corners to allow for
opposing vehicles to pass. Dimension the width(s) of the
parking ramp from the lane throughout the length of the
parking ramp. Provision of maneuvering diagrams to
confirm ramp design is adequate and functional.
(iii) Provision of a section drawing showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and
through the loading bay.
(iv) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, and
at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: Where there is a curved ramp, provide
grades two feet from the wall on the inside radius. The
slope and length of the ramp sections must be shown on
the submitted drawings.
(v) Provision of the required Class B loading space and an
improved drawing clearly showing the loading space and
‘stair-free’ access route from the loading space to the
elevator.
(vi) Provision of columns, column dimensions, and column
setbacks to be shown on the drawings.
(vii) Provision of additional dimensions on the section drawings
showing vertical clearance within the parking levels.
Ensure adequate vertical clearance is provided for
mechanical projections, utilities and other services.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 25
(viii) Additional design elevations are required to confirm the
slope and crossfall within the parking levels do not exceed
the requirements. Slope and crossfall to be shown on the
drawings.
(ix) 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for access and
maneuvering to all disability spaces and must be noted on
the drawings.
(x) Dimension the access aisle width and the size of the
bicycle spaces in the bicycle storage rooms.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services (GMES) and the General
Manager of Arts, Culture, and Community Services, as necessary, and at
the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements
for the following:
Engineering
1. The closing of, stopping up and conveying to the owner the
required portion of the lane west of Victoria Drive north of East
11th Avenue, subsequent to Council approval; and the relocation
or decommissioning of any utilities within this area.
Note to Applicant: The lane must be purchased from the City at
market value and be paid for upon enactment. If enactment does
not take place within a reasonable timeframe, the City reserves
the right to re-value the lane.
2. Provision of written confirmation and agreement from all affected
utility companies for the closure of the portion of lane.
3. Consolidation of the closed portion of lane, Lots A, B, C and D, All
of Lots C and D, Plan 2728; Lots 21, 22 and Lot 23 Except: the
North 5 Feet Now Lane, All of Lots C and D, Plans 1059 and
1771; and Strata Plan VR2475 (after cancellation & dissolution);
All of Block 162, District Lot 264A to form a single development
parcel, and subdivision of that site to result in the dedication of:
(i) the northerly 5 feet of current Lots 21, 22, and VR2475
(ii) the easterly 7 feet of current Lots A, B, C & D.
Note to Applicant: A subdivision plan and application to the
Subdivision and Strata Group is required.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 26
4. Registration of a temporary Statutory Right-of-Way agreement in
favour of the City over the portion of lane to be closed for public
utility purposes, to be discharged once all utilities impacted by the
lane closure have been abandoned, relocated or otherwise
protected, as necessary, and any associated lane and street
reconstruction works have been completed to the satisfaction of
the GMES.
5. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. Please supply project details
including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler demand,
hydrant load, and domestic water demands to confirm
extent of water main upgrading.
(ii) Upgrade and separate the combined sewer on East 11th
Avenue, from Commercial Drive to the point of the
development's sewer connections (approximately 210 m).
(iii) Removal of the old lane entry and curb returns and all
related infrastructure at closed lane west of Victoria Drive
on the north side of East 11th Avenue to provide for new
curb and sidewalk consistent with all curb and sidewalk
improvements sought for the site
(iv) Provision of a new concrete commercial lane crossing on
the west side of Victoria Drive at the lane north of East
11th Avenue and replacement of curb returns and curb
ramps on both sides of the lane entry are required.
(v) Provision of lane repaving to centerline of the existing lane
for the length of the site.
(vi) Provision of a 2.44 m (8’-0”) front boulevard with sodded
lawn, 1.83 m (6’-0”) saw cut broom finish concrete
sidewalk on Victoria Drive adjacent the site.
(vii) Provision of a 1.83 m (6’-0”) front boulevard with sodded
lawn, and a 1.83 m (6’-0”) saw cut broom finish concrete
sidewalk on East 11th Avenue adjacent the site.
(viii) Provision of upgraded street lighting on the site frontage to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 27
(ix) Upgrading of the traffic signal at Victoria Drive & Broadway
to provide a new left turn arrow (Westbound to
Southbound), countdown timers and LED lighting on all
four corners of the intersection signal infrastructure.
(x) Provision of a single corner bulge on the East 11th Avenue
frontage at Victoria Drive.
6. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features. In addition, there will be
no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead
electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the
existing overhead/underground utility network to accommodate
this development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
7. Developer to submit a Stormwater and Rainwater Management
Plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and
Water Course By-law. The developer’s plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
(i) Retain or infiltration the 6-month storm event volume
(24 mm) on site;
(ii) Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) on site; and
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 5-year storm event rate. The
predevelopment estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF curve,
whereas the post development estimate shall use the
2100 IDF curve to account for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Based on the initial review of this development
and without applicant confirmation of the development’s fire flow
demands and domestic water demands, the development will be
subject to an upgrade of the water main that serves the
development. The water main upgrade is to be funded by the City
and must be completed prior to building occupancy. Co-ordination
of this water main upgrade and building completion is necessary
to ensure adequate fire protection for the building. An occupancy
hold will be placed on the project to ensure the water main

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 28
upgrade is completed prior-to building occupancy. Fire flow rates
as noted above are needed to confirm this initial assessment.
Housing
8. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture, and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement and Section 219
Covenant securing the 72 residential units being 49 per cent of the
total residential floor area, as secured market rental housing for
the longer of 60 years or the life of the building, subject to the
following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) Compliance with the City-approved Tenant Relocation
Plan, including provision of a final Tenant Relocation
Report prior to issuance of the occupancy permit; and
(v) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts, Culture, and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted
pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Heritage
9. Council approval of a Heritage Designation By-law for the heritage
building, known as the “Karme Residence”, located at 1853-1857
East 11th Avenue listed in the Vancouver Heritage Register in the
“B” category, and enactment of this Heritage Designation By-law.
Note to Applicant: Staff intend to bring the Heritage Designation
By-law forward for enactment shortly after the Public Hearing
(should Council approve the Heritage Designation By-law), in part
to allow for the notice to be registered in the Land Title Office
within 30 days of enactment, a Vancouver Charter requirement,
but prior to any consolidation or subdivision of the parcels. If there
are any concerns about the timing of the Heritage Designation
By-law enactment, please contact the rezoning planner. The
applicant is to ensure that the consolidation of lots occurs only
after the Heritage Designation By-law is enacted and notice of the
designation is registered on title to the lands.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 29
10. That the owner enters into a Heritage Restoration Covenant
(which will include a Section 219 Covenant, Statutory Right of
Way and Equitable Charge) for the rehabilitation and conservation
of the heritage building known as the “Karme Residence” to the
satisfaction of the Director of Planning and the Director of Legal
Services, and that the agreement is registered on title to the lands
in the Land Title Office to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services.
11. Submission of a conservation plan for the heritage building (the
Karme Residence), which is to be reviewed by the Heritage
Commission prior to CD-1 By-law enactment, to the satisfaction of
the Director of Planning.
Sustainability
12. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Public Art
13. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services for the provision of public art in accordance
with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to provide for
security in a form and amount satisfactory to the aforesaid
officials; and provide development details to the satisfaction of the
Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please call Karen Henry, Public Art Planner
(604-673-8282), to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
14. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 30
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Community Amenity Contributions (CACs)
15. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $3,827,000,
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be made
prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services. The $3,827,000 contribution is to be allocated to support
delivery of the Grandview-Woodland Public Benefits Strategy.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the heritage designation of the heritage building’s exterior at 1853-1857
East 11th Avenue [Lot 23 Except: the North 5 feet now lane of Lots C and D,
Block 162, District Lot 264A, Plan 1059 and 1771; PID: 003-923-533] as
protected heritage property, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and
2631-2685 Victoria Drive”, be approved.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 31
C. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning, the heritage designation and
the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and
2631-2685 Victoria Drive”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare
the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, prior to enactment of
the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03112)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
3. REZONING: CD-1 Rezoning at 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of
the Facades of the Northern Electric Company Building
On June 26, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at the Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on July 10, 2018, as Unfinished
Business.
Councillors De Genova and Jang advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the Public
Hearing they had missed and would therefore be participating in discussion and decision on the
application.
Yan Zeng, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and the City Manager, responded to
questions

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 32
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by GBL Architects Inc., on behalf of Amacon Development
(Robson) Corp., to rezone 118 Robson Street [PID 003-374-688; Lot C, Block 68,
District Lot 541, Plan 14094] and 150 Robson Street [Lots 1 to 7, Block 68,
District Lot 541, Plan 2565; PIDs 013-639-374, 013-639-421, 013-639-447,
013-639-463, 013-639-471, 013-639-501 and 013-639-528 respectively] and an
approximate 143.8 sq. m (1,548 sq. ft.) adjacent portion of road, to be stopped
up, closed and conveyed to the registered owner of 118-150 Robson Street, all
from DD (Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 5.00 to 10.07 to allow for the
construction of a 29-storey mixed-use building, comprised of market residential,
hotel, and ground-floor retail and services uses, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at
118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of the Facades of the Northern
Electric Company Building”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by GBL Architects Inc., and stamped
“Received City Planning Department, February 28, 2017”, provided that
the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development of open balconies to comply with 12 percent
of residential floor area.
Note to Applicant: The area proposed for open balconies is
approximately 16 percent and exceeds the maximum 12 percent
allowable exclusion. 16 percent of balcony area can be
considered only if the surplus amount, i.e. the 4 percent in excess
of the exclusion is counted in the proposed FSR. Given the
Applicant wishes to include no additional balcony floor area in the
calculation of FSR, the maximum exclusion for open balconies will
be 12 percent. Consideration, in any event, should be given to
simplifying the balcony pattern and to better relate them to the
heritage building by aligning them to the patterns and openings of
the retained heritage facade.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 33
2. Design development to refine building massing of the Hotel use as
follows:
(i) simplify corner massing (offset cubes) on Beatty Street
with consideration to straighten and align them; and
(ii) improve and make legible the glass connector between the
heritage building and hotel massing.
Note to Applicant: The shifted cubes do not appreciably improve
solar performance on open space. The disposition of the floors,
openings, and the glass connecter, serve well to distinguish new
construction from the heritage building. The above adjustments
will strengthen the design in terms of how it relates to the heritage
façade.
3. Design development to improve the interface along Beatty Street
by providing landscape solutions in addition to providing active
uses at grade.
Note to Applicant: Please also refer to relevant conditions under
Landscape.
4. Design development to simplify the use of materials on the hotel
massing with consideration for the use of brick instead of metal
panel, light coloured material.
Note to Applicant: Consideration for a well-chosen brick, and its
tone would relate well to the heritage form. This would represent a
sophisticated contrast to the traditional composition of the façade.
Further, the overall podium, with this material change, would
contrast well against the tower massing.
Landscape
5. Further coordination with City staff and the project arborist at the
development permit stage to protect street tree roots and canopy
associated with public realm improvements and/or building face
clearance requirements.
Note to Applicant: This will require further attention by the
landscape architect and project arborist to anticipate and reduce
unnecessary root disturbances, wherever possible. Retention of
the existing public sidewalk/boulevard in the critical root zone may
be necessary. Coordination will be needed with Engineering,
Planning and Park Board (Urban Forestry) for the final public ream
landscape design submitted for development permit and
construction phase.
6. Design development to the six storey hotel building to ensure a
pedestrian friendly experience at the interface of the ground plans
and the vertical facades of the structure.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 34
Note to Applicant: Options should be explored to utilize landscape
planting that is viable and a pedestrian edge that may include a
seating wall in combination with trees. Avoid tall planter walls by
lowering the slab below grade at the edges.
7. Design development to the child play space located on Level 5 to
include landscape features with natural materials such as sand,
balancing logs, boulders that provide a range of creative and
motor-skills developing play activities.
Note to Applicant: While play equipment is neither required nor
encouraged, natural materials are preferred to stimulate creativity
and exposure to nature.
8. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating common and
botanical name, size and quantity of all existing/ proposed plant
material.
Note to Applicant: Plant material should be clearly illustrated on
the Landscape Plan and keyed to the Plant List. The landscape
plan should include all exterior hard and soft surface elements
(site furniture, gates, fences, surfaces, screens, walls), the public
realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed street
trees, adjoining landscaping/ grades and public utilities such as
lamp posts, hydro poles, fire hydrants.
9. Provision of large scale architectural and landscape sections
(typical) through planted areas, including the slab-patio-planter
relationship.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree stems, canopy and root ball (where applicable).
10. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas.
Note to Applicant: Illustrate symbols (irrigation stub locations),
written specifications and notations on the landscape plans in this
regard. The green roof will have special irrigation requirements
during the establishment phase.
11. Provision of a detailed arborist report.
Note to Applicant: The expanded report should inform public realm
design and methods for street tree retention. Include any
construction limitations such as the location of construction
storage materials, temporary structures, utility conflicts, site
access, development phasing and temporary irrigation
requirements.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 35
12. Provision of an arborist supervision assurance letter.
Note to Applicant: The letter should outline the important
construction milestones where the arborist will need to be notified
in advance to attend the site and provide services. The letter
should and be signed by the applicant/owner, the arborist and the
contractor.
13. Incorporate the principles of the City of Vancouver, Bird-Friendly
Design Guidelines for the protection, enhancement and creation of
bird habitat, in addition, reduce potential threats to birds in the
City.
Note to Applicant: refer to
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentB.
pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentC.
pdf
Sustainability
14. Any new building in the development must meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of
63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency
and stormwater management and a 22 percent reduction in
energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with
registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates which
credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their building
application, as submitted, incorporates strategies, features or
technologies that will help achieve these credits. The strategy,
along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated into the
drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional
or Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns
with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the application
and the project registration number incorporated into the
drawings. Application for Certification will be required at a
subsequent stage.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
15. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 36
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings. Consultation
with the social housing operators and Park Board staff with
experience of the more specific CPTED risks in this area is
recommended, and should be included the response to this
condition.
Engineering
16. Provision of a revised landscape plan with the existing trees along
the Robson Street frontage located as per the survey plan. Note
that the existing trees are located approximately 4-5 feet closer to
the building than indicated on LRZ 1.01. and provision of the
following notes on the landscape plans:
“All plant material within the same continuous planting area which
is located on street right-of-way within 10 m (32.8 ft.), measured
from the corner, of an intersection, pedestrian crossing, entrance
to a driveway or other conflict areas where sightlines need to be
maintained for safety reasons, shall not exceed a mature height of
0.6 m (2.0 ft.), measured from the sidewalk.
All plant material within the street right-of-way which is located
outside of the areas described in the paragraph above shall not
exceed 1 m (3.3 ft.) in height, measured from the sidewalk.
Plants shall be planted in such a way as to not encroach on the
sidewalk, street, lane, and/or bike lane.”
17. Provide tree and planting selection Landscape drawings.
18. Clarification of how the existing elevations of the heritage building
will respond to the proposed City building grades which are higher
than the current entries and elevations. The current proposal
shows a reversed grade on the sidewalk and no provision for
drainage of the public sidewalk. If the revered grades are
accepted then a storm spur may be necessary to drain the area
with costs for the storm spur at the applicant’s expense.
19. Design development to the Robson Street sidewalk to generally
remove benches, etc. from beyond the line of the correctly located
existing street trees to provide an uninterrupted sidewalk as wide
as possible for the Robson Street frontage with treatments
consistent with the public realm plan for this location.
20. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 37
21. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
22. Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are
to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City
needs in a configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services (GMES) and in conformance with applicable
electrical codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be required
that includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
23. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
24. Provision of Class B bike parking requirements to be located on
site.
Note to Applicant: City of Vancouver bike racks on City property
do not count towards required Class B bike parking.
25. Clearly show the Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) on the Site Plan,
Level 1 Plan and the Landscape drawings.
26. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp, through
the loading bay and the parking levels.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 38
(ii) Minimum 2.3 m clearance is required for Class A loading
and disability spaces.
(iii) Minimum 3.8 m clearance is required for Class B loading
Note to Applicant: Label the minimum clearances on the
drawings, including overhead gate and mechanical
projections.
(iv) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp and sloped sections in the parking levels at all
breakpoints, both sides of the loading bays, and at all
entrances.
Note to Applicant: The slope and length of the ramp
sections must be shown on the submitted drawings.
27. Modification of the parking ramp design as follows:
(i) Provide a 10 ft. x 10 ft. corner cut through the inside radius
at the bottom of the main parking ramp (left side of ramp)
to enable two vehicles to pass each other unobstructed.
(ii) Provide measures to address conflicts between vehicles
on the ramp. Parabolic mirrors are recommended.
(iii) Dimension all columns encroaching into parking stalls.
(iv) Provide additional parking stall width for stalls adjacent to
walls, for single module stalls and for stalls with reduced
aisle width.
(v) Provision of minimum 7 ft. 6 in. stall width for small car
stalls
28. Modification of the loading bay design as follows:
(i) Provide a double throat for the Class B loading spaces.
(ii) Additional loading bay width for the second and
subsequent loading spaces (each additional space must
be 3.8 m wide)
(iii) Provision of internal stair free loading routes from the
Class B loading bays to all uses including to the different
uses within the hotel.
Note to Applicant: Show the load routes on the submitted
drawings.
(iv) Relocate the two Class A loading bays for the residential
use in front of the residential overhead gate in close
proximity to the residential elevators.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 39
Note to Applicant: This is to ensure that the spaces are
accessible to service providers for the residential units.
(v) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
29. Modify access to the bicycle parking as follows:
(i) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s).
(ii) Provide alcoves for bike room access off the vehicle
maneuvering aisle.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to
the General Manager of Planning and Development, the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General Manager
of Engineering Services, the Director of Facility Design and Management
and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and
expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. The closing of, stopping up and conveying to the owner the
required portion of Robson Street west of Beatty Street,
subsequent to Council approval; and the relocation or
decommissioning of any utilities within this area.
2. Consolidation of Lots 1 to 7, Plan 2565, and Lot C, Plan 14094; all
of Block 68, DL 541 and the portion of closed road to create a
single development parcel.
3. Registration of a temporary Statutory Right of Way (SRW)
agreement in favour of the City over the portion of road to be
closed for public utility purposes, to be discharged once all utilities
impacted by the road closure have been abandoned, relocated or
otherwise protected, as necessary, and any associated street
reconstruction works have been completed to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
4. Confirmation of any existing building encroachments onto city
streets and lanes from the Northern Electric Building. Should
encroachments exist, arrangements (legal agreements) must be
made for all building elements which encroach onto City property.
Upon completion of the exterior restoration work, a new BC Land

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 40
Surveyor’s Location Certificate will be required to confirm the
extent of all building encroachments at that time.
Note to Applicant: An application to the City Surveyor is required.
To enable permit issuance a letter of commitment, to enter into a
City standard encroachment agreement, is required.
5. The applicant is advised that building encroachments onto City
street may cause problems when strata titling a property due to
Section 244(1)(f) of the Strata Property Act. The City of Vancouver
may not necessarily support the provision of easements for any
parts of the building on City Street. If strata titling is being
proposed, the applicant is advised to seek independent legal
advice on the matter and to also contact the City Surveyor.
6. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 524445M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
7. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory Right of
Way (SRW) on Beatty Street to achieve a 5.5 m (18 ft.) sidewalk
from the back of the existing City curb to the building face. A legal
survey of the existing dimension from the back of the City curb is
required to determine the final setback/SRW dimension. The SRW
will be free of any encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door
swing, landscape and bicycle parking at grade but the
encroaching building portions shown below grade and at the
second and third storey and above will be accommodated within
the SRW agreement.
8. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of General Manager of
Engineering Services (GMES) and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 41
upgrading. The applicant is responsible for 100 percent of
any water system upgrading that may be required.
(iii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan
that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
a. Retain or infiltration the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
b. Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite; and
c. Maintain the pre-development 10-year storm event
rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post development
estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
(iv) Provision of a frost-free public water fountain to be located
adjacent the site. The fountain is to be served by a
separate water connection. The preferred location is near
the Robson Street and Beatty Street intersection.
(v) Provision of the following street improvements adjacent to
the site:
a. Provision of the Library Square – Robson Street
streetscape treatment including tree surrounds,
granite street name markers, pedestrian lighting
and sidewalk finishes and patterns on Robson
Street.
b. Provision of a 1.53 m (5 ft.) exposed aggregate
front boulevard and a minimum 3.96 m (13 ft.) Cast
In Place (CIP) light broom finish sidewalk with saw
cut joints on Robson Street.
c. Provision of new CIP light broom finish sidewalk
with saw cut joints and exposed aggregate front
filler sidewalk on Beatty Street and Cambie Street
with standard four piece tree surrounds.
d. Provision of upgraded street lighting on all site
frontages to current standards including a review of
the existing lighting to determine its adequacy and
a lighting design as required, including the
relocation of existing street lighting on Robson
Street to the typical back of curb location.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 42
e. Provision of an upgraded traffic signal at Cambie
and Robson intersection (including upgraded signal
pole and arm at the south east corner to current
standards, traffic signal kiosk controller and
associated equipment and LED lighting).
f. Relocation/replacement of BC Hydro kiosk to the
edge of the new sidewalk on Robson Street.
g. Provision of intersection lighting upgrade (LED
lighting on each corner pole is required).
h. Provision of commercial concrete lane crossings on
the east side of Cambie Street and the west side of
Beatty Street at the lane south of Robson Street
including replacement of curb returns and curb
ramps where necessary.
i. Undergrounding or removal of all existing overhead
utilities and removal of all wood poles from adjacent
the site. Confirmation from all utilities who make
use of the wood poles is required confirming
arrangements are in place to the satisfaction of
GMES.
(vi) Provision of uninterrupted space on the Robson Street
sidewalk for a future 19 m x 4 m public bike share station.
The following conditions apply:
a. Size: At a minimum a 19 m x 4 m sized station shall
be accommodated.
b. Location: The full length of the space is to be
continuous and located on the Robson Street
frontage, south of the 3.96 m sidewalk on public
property adjacent to the proposed ‘Hotel – Lounge
Patio’.
c. Access: Consideration for placement of building
elements (e.g. fire department connections, HVAC
vents, etc.) and landscaping that require frequent
access and maintenance directly adjacent to the
PBS space. These elements shall not be in conflict
or cause frequent disruption to the PBS station.
d. Surface treatment: A hard surface is required with
no utility access points (no manholes or junction
boxes etc.), landscaping, and street furniture within
the PBS station footprint. Any utility access point
within 1m of the PBS space is to be identified and
shown in detail on the drawing submission.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 43
e. Grades: The surface must be consistent in grade
with a maximum cross slope of 3 percent along the
length with a maximum slope of 5 percent. At
minimum, spot elevations at the four corners of the
station must be provided.
f. Sun exposure: There must be a minimum of 5 m
vertical clearance above the PBS space in order to
maximize sun exposure as station operates on
solar power. Ideally the station should receive 5
hours of direct sunlight a day.
9. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but are not
limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted transformers
and kiosks (including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be located on
private property with no reliance on public property for placement
of these features. There will be no reliance on secondary voltage
from the existing overhead electrical network on the street
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground
utility network to accommodate this development will require
approval by the Utilities Management Branch. The applicant may
be required to show details of how the site will be provided with all
services being underground.
Shelter Relocation
10. Prior to enactment of the rezoning by-law, the applicant will enter
into a Section 219 Covenant, to be registered against title to the
rezoning site, to secure the relocation of the shelter space
currently located on the rezoning site under the following terms:
(i) No demolition permits for the rezoning site will be issued until:
a. the applicant can demonstrate that it has secured
or has facilitated the securing of a replacement
shelter space that is, at a minimum, an operational
102-bed, 10,000 sq. ft. space that is located within
the Downtown District Zoning Boundary or such
other location in the Downtown Core as may be
acceptable to the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services;
b. if the new replacement shelter space is leased
space, a copy of the new lease is provided to the
City for the review of and confirmation by the
Directors of Legal Services and Real Estate
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services that such lease provides
for, at a minimum, a 102 bed, 10,000 sq. ft. space
that is located as required in subsection (i)(a) , and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 44
such lease will be for a minimum of a 10 year term
at rents that allow the shelter to be sustainable for
the duration of the lease term; and
c. the new replacement shelter space has been
renovated to meet funder requirements and BC
Housing’s standards for shelters, an Occupancy
Permit has been obtained, and all operations have
been relocated from the rezoning site to the new
shelter by the Catholic Charities,
provided that the requirement for the Section 219
Covenant may be dispensed with and demolition permits
issued or, if the Section 219 Covenant has been
registered, it may be discharged and demolition permits
issued, if in either case the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services is satisfied that the
replacement shelter space will be operational within a
suitable period of time and any security that may be
required by the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services to secure the delivery of the
replacement shelter has been provided to the City in the
form required by the Director of Legal Services; and
(ii) The new replacement shelter space will be for the use of
the operation of a homeless shelter by Catholic Charities
or, if Catholic Charities determines not to continue to
operate a homeless shelter or if Catholic Charities defaults
in its obligations to the applicant, another non-profit shelter
operator to be approved by the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services in consultation with BC
Housing.
Heritage (Northern Electric Company Building)
11. Council approves a Heritage Designation By-law for the heritage
building's four exterior facades and that the by-law is enacted and
notice of this is registered in the Land Titles Office pursuant to
Section 594(9) of the Vancouver Charter.
Note to Applicant: Section 594(8) of the Vancouver Charter
requires that a notice of the designation be registered in Land
Titles within 30 days of the by-law's enactment. In this regard it is
important that the legal description on the by-law matches the
records in the Land Title Office, and as such it is recommended
that any subdivision/ dedication of the lands or consolidations be
done after the designation by-law is registered, or well in advance
such that the by-law had the up to date legal description.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 45
12. The owner enters into a Heritage Restoration Covenant (Section
219 Covenant) for the conservation of the heritage facades to the
satisfaction of the Director of Planning and the Director of Legal
Services, and that the agreement is completed and registered on
title to the lands to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services.
Note to Applicant: Please contact the heritage planner, James
Boldt, at james.boldt@vancouver.ca in this regard.
13. Submission of a stabilization/retention plan, signed and sealed by
the structural engineer, showing in detail how the three full
facades of the heritage building which are to be retained,
stabilized, and protected during the construction process, to the
satisfaction of the Director of Planning.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) — In-kind Offerings
14. Fee Simple Title Transfer of the Applicant’s Property on Hamilton
Street to the City – Transfer to the City for a nominal amount
($1.00) the fee simple title to those lands and improvements at
877 Hamilton Street, Vancouver, BC [Lots 22 and 23, both of
Block 66, District Lot 541, Plan 210, PIDs: 015-458-873 and
015-458-857 respectively] (the “Subject Property”, see Figure 8 of
the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at
118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of the Facades
of the Northern Electric Company Building”) prior to enactment of
the rezoning by-law for 118-150 Robson Street (the “Rezoning
Lands”), which transfer will be in accordance with the City’s
standard “Contract of Purchase and Sale”, which contract will
provide, among other things, that:
(i) title to the Subject Property will not be subject to any liens,
mortgages or other charges, other than the “permitted
charges” expressly approved by the City’s Director of Legal
Services;
(ii) the Applicant (owner of the Subject Property) will assign all
leases to the City if a tenant(s) is (are) presently occupying
the lands and/or improvement(s) located within the Subject
Property. The Applicant (owner of the Subject Property)
will not enter into any new leases hereafter of all or any
part of the Subject Property without the prior written
consent of the City. Please note that final acceptance of
this offering is subject to the City’s review and approval of
all the current leases for the Subject Property, copies of
which are to be provided to the City’s Director of Real
Estate Services; and
(iii) the Applicant (owner of the Subject Property) will represent
and warrant that the Subject Property is and has been free
from Contaminants (as defined in applicable environmental
legislation) and no Contaminants have migrated from the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 46
Subject Property or to the Subject Property from other
lands, and such other additional representations and
warranties as are required by the City with respect to
Contaminants. Further that the Applicant (owner) will
indemnify the City if the City incurs any costs, claims, etc.,
in connection with any inaccuracy or untruth of any such
representations and warranties.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) — Cash Payments
15. Pay to the City the cash Community Amenity Contribution of
$13,557,060 (cash CAC offering) which the applicant has offered
to the City. Allocation of this cash to be as follows:
(i) $5,000,000 towards the Affordable Housing Reserve to
help secure social housing and services to meet resident’s
needs, as set out in Housing Vancouver, in and around
downtown area.
(ii) $4,000,000 towards public realm improvements in and
around downtown area such as along 800 Robson Street
and Granville Street.
(iii) $1,557,060 towards park upgrades in and around
downtown area such as Yaletown Park.
(iv) $2,000,000 towards delivery of other City serving
amenities such as the relocation of the City Archives to the
Central Library.
(iv) $1,000,000 towards the City’s cultural and social capital
grant program.
16. Conditions of the City’s acceptance of the cash CAC offering:
(i) Replacement Shelter: The relocation of the shelter space
currently on the Rezoning Lands must be secured based
on the terms outlined in condition (c) 10, under the heading
Shelter Relocation.
(ii) Local Buyers First: The Applicant’s voluntary commitment
to support residents who live or work in Metro Vancouver
by giving them the first opportunity to purchase new
pre-sale homes in the new development on the Rezoning
Lands, which includes the following:
a. For the first 30 calendar days after the launch of the
“pre-sales marketing campaign” for this
development (the “Exclusive Local Buyer Period”),
only those who live or work in Metro Vancouver will
be eligible to purchase homes in this development,
and all such buyers will be required by the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 47
Applicant to sign a statutory declaration attesting
that they live or work in Metro Vancouver and
intend to occupy the unit they are purchasing.
b. The text of the statutory declaration will be agreed
upon in advance of the rezoning enactment by the
Applicant and the City’s Director of Legal Services.
c. There shall be no foreign marketing during this
Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
d. No buyer shall be allowed to purchase more than
one (1) unit within this Exclusive Local Buyer
Period.
Public Art
17. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager (a checklist will be
provided).
Note to Applicant: Please contact 311 to be directed to the Public
Art Program Manager to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
18. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Protection, City Engineer and Director of
Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 48
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as Covenants
pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the heritage designation of all four exterior facades (the “heritage
facades”) of the Northern Electric Company (NEC) Building (the “heritage
building”) at 150 Robson Street [Lots 1 to 7, Block 68, District Lot 541, Plan
2565, PIDs 013-639-374, 013-639-421, 013-639-447, 013-639-463, 013-639-
471, 013-639-501 and 013-639-528 respectively], which is listed in the “B”
evaluation category on the Vancouver Heritage Register, as protected heritage
property, be approved.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C, of the Policy Report dated
May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage
Designation of the Facades of the Northern Electric Company Building”, be
approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise
Control By-law generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage
Designation of the Facades of the Northern Electric Company Building”.
E. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to enter into a
contract of purchase and sale for property having a civic address of 877 Hamilton
Street [Lots 22 and 23, both of Block 66, District Lot 541, Plan 210, PIDs:
015-458-873 and 015-458-857 respectively] for a nominal purchase price of
$1.00 as further set out in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of
the Facades of the Northern Electric Company Building”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 49
F. THAT A through E be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03113)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
COMMUNICATIONS
1. 2018 Council Meeting Schedule Revision
THAT Public Hearings be held on the following dates and times:
Date Time
Tuesday, July 31, 2018 6 pm
Thursday, August 2, 2018 6 pm
Wednesday, September 5, 2018 6 pm
Thursday, September 6, 2018 6 pm
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03087)
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. 2018 Social Grants – Childcare Enhancement and Other Grants
July 3, 2018
A. THAT Council authorize 44 Childcare Enhancement Grants to 27 non-profit
childcare providers totalling $971,151, as described in Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled “2018 Social Grants –
Childcare Enhancement and Other Grants”. Source of funding is the 2018 Social
Policy Grants Operating budget.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 50
B. THAT Council authorize one Neighbourhood Access Grant of $45,000 to the
YMCA Woodwards Children’s Centre as described in Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled “2018 Social Grants –
Childcare Enhancement and Other Grants”, for the period January 1, 2018 to
December 31, 2018. Source of funding is the 2018 Social Policy Grants
Operating budget.
C. THAT Council authorize three Direct Social Service Grants totalling $103,472 as
described in Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled
“2018 Social Grants – Childcare Enhancement and Other Grants”. Source of
funding is the 2018 Social Policy Grants Operating budget.
D. THAT Council authorize one Organizational Capacity Building Grant of $5,604 to
Vancouver Community Network as described in Appendix B of the Administrative
Report dated July 3, 2018, entitled “2018 Social Grants – Childcare
Enhancement and Other Grants”. Source of funding is the 2018 Social Policy
Grants Operating budget.
E. THAT Council authorize three Social Responsibility Fund Grants totalling $92,500
as described in Appendix C of the Administrative Report dated July 3, 2018,
entitled “2018 Social Grants – Childcare Enhancement and Other Grants”.
Source of funding is the Edgewater Casino Social Responsibility Reserve.
F. THAT Council authorize a grant of $309,228 to the Collingwood Neighbourhood
House Society for the period January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. Source of
funding is $269,228 from the 2018 General Government Operating budget and
$40,000 from the Social Policy Grants Operating budget.
G. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization listed in Appendices A and B of the Administrative Report dated
July 3, 2018, entitled “2018 Social Grants – Childcare Enhancement and Other
Grants”, which is not otherwise a registered charity with Canada Revenue
Agency, to be contributing to the culture of the City.
H. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate and execute agreements to disperse the grants described
in A to F above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such other terms
and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts, Culture and
Community Services and Director of Legal Services.
I. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A to F above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
A to F BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 03088)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 51
2. Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grants – Summer 2018 Intake
June 27, 2018
A. THAT Council approve six (6) new Community Sport Hosting Grants totalling
$41,000 as outlined in the Administrative Report dated June 27, 2018, entitled
“Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grants – Summer 2018 Intake”; source of
funding is the 2018 Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grant Program Budget.
B. THAT the grants noted in A above be subject to each grant recipient agreeing to
the terms and conditions of the community sport hosting grant program as
generally outlined in the Administrative Report dated June 27, 2018, entitled
“Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grants – Summer 2018 Intake” and
otherwise satisfactory to the Senior Manager, Sport Hosting and the City
Solicitor.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of the A and B
above unless and until the grant agreement letter is executed and delivered by
the grant recipient.
D. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deem the
organizations in A to C above which are not otherwise a registered charity with
Canada Revenue Agency are deemed by Council to be any organization
contributing to the culture, beautification, health, or welfare of the City.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 03089)
3. 59-79 and 87-115 Southwest Marine Drive Lease and Operator Selection
May 22, 2018
A. THAT Council approve New Chelsea Society (“New Chelsea”) as the selected
non-profit partner to finance, build, operate and maintain the 102 unit social
housing project on the City-owned sites located at:
i) 75 SW Marine Drive (formerly 55-79 SW Marine Drive); PID:
030-401-551, Lot 2, Block 5, District Lot 322, Group 1, New Westminster
District, Plan EPP79650); and
ii) 95 SW Marine Drive (formerly 87-115 SW Marine Drive); PID:
030-401-640, Lot 1, Blocks 6 & 7, District Lot 322, Group 1,
New Westminster District, Plan EPP79270) (the “Properties”).
B. THAT Council authorize the Chief Executive Officer of Vancouver Affordable
Housing Agency to negotiate and execute a ground lease (the “Lease”) for the
Properties with New Chelsea to enable the development of a non-market housing
project which ground lease will provide for:
i) a term of 60 years;
ii) a nominal prepaid rent;
iii) a minimum of 30 percent of social housing units, across unit types, in the
buildings must be rented to households with incomes below the BC

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 52
Housing Income Limits at a rent that comprises no more than 30 percent
of gross monthly household income;
iv) reporting requirements, including an annual rent roll and periodic building
condition report;
v) a requirement to create, implement and comply with a capital asset plan;
vi) a requirement to maintain a capital replacement reserve at a level of
funding approved by the City;
vii) a requirement to seek approval from the City for reinvestment of surplus
generated from the project, which may include, but not limited to:
i) supplement the operating contingency and/or capital replacement
reserves, and/or ii) maintain or enhance housing affordability onsite or
offsite within Vancouver, and/or iii) surplus sharing with the City; and
viii) which will otherwise be in accordance with the terms and conditions
outlined in this report and to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General Manager of Real
Estate and Facilities Management, the Director of Finance, and the
Director of Legal Services.
C. THAT Council’s decision to commence negotiations and execute the Lease will
not, in any way, limit Council or the City and its officials (including the Approving
Officer) in exercising their regulatory discretion in respect of any rezoning,
subdivision or consolidation or permitting of or for the Properties.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A and B above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
B BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 03090)
4. Closure and Sale of a Portion of Lane Adjacent to 3681 Victoria Drive and 1915
Stainsbury Avenue
June 26, 2018
A. THAT Council close, stop-up and convey to the owner of 3681 Victoria Drive and
1915 Stainsbury Avenue (the “Abutting Lands”) that approximately 307.4 square
metre portion of abutting lane (the “Old Lane”), the same as generally shown
hatched on the plan attached as Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated
June 26, 2018, entitled “Closure and Sale of a Portion of Lane Adjacent to 3681
Victoria Drive and 1915 Stainsbury Avenue”, subject to the terms and conditions
noted in Appendix A of the above-noted report.
B. THAT the sale proceeds of $450,000 be credited to the Property Endowment
Fund (PEF).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 3092)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 53
POLICY REPORTS
1. Updates to General Policy for Higher Buildings
June 25, 2018
This report was referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
July 11, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
2. Interim Hotel Development Policy and Related Amendments to the Downtown
Official Development Plan
June 28, 2018
A. THAT, in order to retain hotel uses downtown, the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to make application to amend the
Downtown Official Development Plan (the “DODP”) to add hotel as a
conditionally permitted land use in Area N and Area L1, generally as set out in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 28, 2018, entitled “Interim Hotel
Development Policy and Related Amendments to the Downtown Official
Development Plan”, and that the application be referred to a Public Hearing; and
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated June 28, 2018, entitled “Interim Hotel Development Policy
and Related Amendments to the Downtown Official Development Plan” for
consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT Council adopt the Interim Hotel Development Policy, generally as
presented in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated June 28, 2018, entitled
“Interim Hotel Development Policy and Related Amendments to the Downtown
Official Development Plan”, to inform community planning initiatives and for the
consideration of rezoning and development applications and enquiries; and
FURTHER THAT Council consider the adoption of the Interim Hotel
Development Policy at the Public Hearing when the text amendments of the
Downtown Official Development Plan By-law (DODP), in A above, are being
considered by Council.
C. THAT Council direct staff to continue monitoring the supply of hotel rooms and
consider policy options and zoning supportive of hotel development as part of
future planning programs including the Broadway Plan and City Core 2050.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03093)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 54
3. CD-1 Rezoning: 1445-1455 West Georgia Street
June 26, 2018
A. THAT the application by James Cheng Architects, on behalf of 1445 West
Georgia Holdings Ltd., to rezone 1445 West Georgia Street [Lot A Except the
North 7 Feet Now Road, Lot B, Lot E and Lot F, all of Lots 14 and 15, Block 42,
District Lot 185, Plan 731; PIDs 009-916-415, 009-916-491, 009-916-521 and
009-916-555 respectively, and the East Part of Lot 13, Block 42, District Lot 185,
Plan 92; PID 009-916-563] and 1455 West Georgia Street [Lots A and B
(Reference Plan 3477) of Lot 12 and the West Part of Lot 13, all of Block 42,
District Lot 185, Plan 92; PIDs 015-843-068, 015-843-084 and 015-843-106
respectively], from DD (Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District to increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 6.00
to 14.69 and the building height from 91.4 m to 156.7 m to permit the
development of a 46-storey tower containing 119 market strata residential units,
be referred to a Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by James Cheng Architects, received October 31, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1445-1455
West Georgia Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if the application is referred to a Public Hearing, a consequential
amendment to Schedule E of the Zoning and Development By-law regarding
building lines, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1445-1455 West Georgia Street”, be
referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1445-1455 West Georgia Street” for
consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, if the application is referred to a Public Hearing, the General Policy for
Higher Buildings be amended to include this CD-1 as a location for a “Landmark
Gateway” higher building, generally as set out in Appendix D of the Policy Report
dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1445-1455 West Georgia Street”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 55
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03094)
4. CD-1 Rezoning: 3070 Kingsway
July 6, 2018
A. THAT the application, by Conwest Ventures Ltd. on behalf of 3070 Kingsway
Inc., to rezone 3070 Kingsway [LOTS 1 AND 2, EXCEPT PART IN REFERENCE
PLAN 2424, BLOCK 16 DISTRICT LOT 37 PLAN 3952; PIDs 011-986-549 and
011-986-565 respectively] from C-2 (Commercial) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District to increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.50
to 3.48 and the building height from 13.8 m (45.3 ft.) to 21.5 m (70.5 ft.) to permit
the development of a six-storey mixed-use building and three-storey townhouses
at the lane with commercial at grade and 40 for-profit affordable rental housing
units, be referred to a Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by GBL Architects, received November 10, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
3070 Kingsway”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 56
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3070 Kingsway”, the Director of
Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement
By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such
terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT, if the application is referred to a Public Hearing, the application to amend
the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
3070 Kingsway”, be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally as set out in Appendix C above-noted report, for
consideration at the Public Hearing.
D. THAT, subject to approval of the rezoning application, the Noise Control By-law
be amended to include this CD-1 in Schedule A, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
3070 Kingsway”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03095)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 57
5. CD-1 Rezoning: 1800-1898 Main Street
June 26, 2018
A. THAT the application by Francl Architecture, on behalf of Cressey Main Holdings
Ltd., to rezone:
 1800 Main Street [PID 009-153-373; LOT B BLOCK 15 DISTRICT LOT 200A
PLAN 11115] and
 1880-1898 Main Street [PID 015-051-943; LOT A (EXPLANATORY PLAN
5193) BLOCK 15 DISTRICT LOT 200A PLAN 934],
from IC-2 (Industrial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 3.00 to 5.02 and building height from
18.3 m (60 ft.) to 32.6 m (107 ft.) to permit an 11-storey mixed-use building
consisting of commercial use at grade and 131 secured for-profit affordable
rental housing units, be referred to public hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by Francl Architecture, received February 15, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1800-1898
Main Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above_noted report for consideration at the public hearing.
B. THAT, if after public hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1800-1898 Main Street”, the
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment, prior to enactment of the CD-1 by-law
contemplated by the above-noted report, subject to such terms and conditions as
may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT, if the application is referred to a public hearing, the application to amend
the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1800-1898 Main Street”, be referred to the same public hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the public hearing.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 58
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Parking By-law be amended
to include the CD-1 By-law and to provide parking regulations generally as set
out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning: 1800-1898 Main Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Parking By-law at the time of enactment of the amending
by-law.
E. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended to include this CD-1 in Schedule B, generally as set out in Appendix C
of the Policy Report dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1800-1898
Main Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the
amending by-law.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03096)
6. CD-1 Rezoning: 119-133 West 41st Avenue
June 26, 2018
A. THAT the application, by DYS Architecture Inc. on behalf of Nexst Oakridge 2
Development Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone:
 119 West 41st Avenue [PID 011-572-744; AMENDED LOT 15 (SEE
298807L), EXCEPT PART IN EXPLANATORY PLAN 5778, OF LOT 2
BLOCK 1003A DISTRICT LOT 526 PLAN 4381],
 125 West 41st Avenue [PID 011-572-736; AMENDED LOT 13 (SEE
304281L), EXCEPT PART IN EXPLANATORY PLAN 5951, OF LOT 2
BLOCK 1003A DISTRICT LOT 526 PLAN 4381], and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 59
 133 West 41st Avenue [PID 007-930-461; LOT 12, EXCEPT THE SOUTH 10
FEET NOW ROAD, OF LOT 2 BLOCK 1003A, DISTRICT LOT 526, PLAN
4381]
all from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 1.78
and to increase the building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 15.25 m (50 ft.), to
permit the development of a courtyard townhouse residential building containing
a total of 20 market residential units, be referred to a Public Hearing together
with:
(i) plans prepared by DYS Architecture Inc., received September 29, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 119-133
West 41st Avenue”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
June 26, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 119-133 West 41st Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03097)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 60
7. CD-1 Rezoning: 1068-1090 Burnaby Street and 1318 Thurlow Street
July 6, 2018
A. THAT the application by Strand Development in partnership with Intracorp
Projects Ltd., on behalf of the registered owner, Thurlow Street Project Nominee
Inc., to rezone 1068 Burnaby Street [Lot 8, Except the West 25 Feet, and The
West 25 Feet of Lot 8, both of Block 12, District Lot 185, Plan 92; PIDs 015-749-
118 and 015-749-126 respectively], 1090 Burnaby Street [PID 010-748-628;
Lot A, Block 12, District Lot 185, Plan 7000] and 1318 Thurlow Street [Strata Lots
1 to 14, District Lot 185, Strata Plan VR. 1437; PIDs 004-478-215, 004-204-948,
002-828-669, 002-862-999, 006-543-961, 004-427-777, 002-630-788, 003-559-
866, 004-074-238, 006-543-987, 006-123-881, 006-544-061, 006-544-088 and
006-544-100 respectively] from RM-5A (Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to increase the permitted floor space ratio
(FSR) from 2.20 FSR to 9.01 FSR and the building height from 18.30 m to
88.66 m to permit the development of a 30-storey residential tower containing
39 social housing units and 82 market strata units, be referred to a Public
Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by NSDA Architecture, received September 5, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1068-1090
Burnaby Street and 1318 Thurlow Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1068-1090 Burnaby Street and
1318 Thurlow Street”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the
zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 61
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03098)
8. CD-1 Rezoning: 1055 Harwood Street
July 6, 2018
A. THAT the application by Strand Development in conjunction with Intracorp
Projects Ltd., on behalf of the registered owner, Harwood Street Project Nominee
Inc., to rezone 1055 Harwood Street [Lots 12 and 13, Block 12, District Lot 185,
Plan 92; PIDs 015-749-134 and 015-749-142 respectively], from RM-5A (Multiple
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to increase the
permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.20 to 9.95 and the building height from
18.3 m to 91.4 m to permit the development of a 32-storey residential tower
which would contain 44 social housing units and 82 market strata units, be
referred to a Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by NSDA Architecture, received October 5, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1055 Harwood
Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated July 6, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1055 Harwood Street”, the Director
of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement
By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such
terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 62
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03099)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
None.
B. Motions on Notice
1. Moratorium on Demolition of Purpose Built Rental Housing Buildings
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver’s Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock report,
unanimously passed by Council at a June 5, 2018 public hearing:
 recommends “further study to determine effective measures and incentives to
encourage reinvestment in the existing rental stock while considering impacts
on existing renters”;
 directs staff to explore the feasibility of municipal incentives to support
structural and energy upgrades in existing rental buildings;
 recommends partnering with LandlordBC on a program to support and
encourage capital planning and energy benchmarking in existing rental
housing;
 recommends working with the provincial and federal governments on
programs to support major capital and energy-efficient upgrades in existing
private market rental housing, including initiatives for energy assessments,
financing, tax incentives and/or grant assistance to support needed capital
upgrades and energy-efficient retrofits conditional on maintaining affordability
and/or minimizing renter displacement;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 63
2. Although the City of Vancouver’s Rental Housing Stock Official Development
Plan protects against the loss of approximately 53,500 units of rental housing
(77 percent of Vancouver’s total rental stock) in terms of ensuring there is 1:1
replacement of rental units that are demolished, it does not protect the affordable
rents that the older rental housing stock provides;
3. Rents in the rental housing that replaces the demolished or renovated older
rental apartments are usually much higher—typically at market rates that are
often more than twice the price;
4. The City’s Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock report also reports that:
 City staff have observed an increased incidence of renters being displaced
for major and minor renovations of existing rental buildings;
 Since 2015, there have been development applications involving major
renovations or redevelopment of existing rental buildings requiring the
relocation of tenants from 1,605 units of purpose-built rental housing,
13 percent of which were occupied by long-term renters with tenancies of
10 years or more;
5. The City is committed to strengthening protection for renters under the Tenant
Relocation and Protection Policy and Rental Housing Stock Official Development
Plan, but it is increasingly difficult to find replacement housing for evicted tenants
in the same neighbourhood at the same rent.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:
A. THAT a moratorium be placed on the demolition of older purpose-built rental
buildings for one year or more, if necessary, until such time as staff both report
back to Council with recommendations arising from the Measures to Retain the
Rental Housing Stock report and measures to protect the existing rental housing
stock are implemented.
B. THAT staff’s report back on the Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock
report include measures to protect affordable rents.
referred
The Mayor noted requests to speak to this motion had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Motion B.1, entitled “Moratorium on Demolition of Purpose Built Rental Housing
Buildings”, be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting
on Wednesday, July 11, 2018, to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03115)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 64
2. Northeast Quadrant Greenway
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver first established the idea of Transportation Greenways in
1995 and defines Greenways as linear public corridors for pedestrians and
cyclists that connect parks, nature reserves, cultural features, historic sites,
neighbourhoods and retail areas;
2. In the last decade the City has made impressive strides in advancing the City
Greenway network including filling the Kits beach to Jericho park gap to complete
the Canada Place to UBC Seaside Greenway and adding several new
greenways including the Arbutus Corridor, North Arm Trail, Comox - Helmcken
and Ridgeway Greenways;
3. The City has set a goal of ensuring there is a City Greenway no more than a
25-minute walk or a 10-minute bike ride from every residence in Vancouver;
4. There are currently no City Greenways in the northeast quadrant of the city which
stretches from Main Street to Boundary Road, and Grandview Highway to
Burrard Inlet;
5. The northeast quadrant of the city has the lowest per capita open space in
Vancouver, the least percentage of tree canopy cover at almost half that of the
city-wide average, and the eastside generally has significantly less plazas,
parklets and neighbourhood public spaces;
6. The northeast quadrant has the lowest per capita incomes in the city and the
highest number of renters: both demographics are least likely to have access to
private green space, most likely to use active transportation, and receive the
greatest benefit from the health and social aspect of greenways;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council support an “East Van
City Greenway” in the northeast quadrant as a priority in the Greenway program and that
staff review the opportunities for a City Greenway in the northeast quadrant in a timely
way, such that the funding for all or part of an “East Van City Greenway” could be
adequately considered for inclusion in the City's 2019-2022 Capital Plan.
referred
The Mayor noted a request to speak to this motion had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 65
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Motion B.2, entitled “Northeast Quadrant Greenway”, be referred to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on Wednesday, July 11, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03116)
3. City of Vancouver Led Fund for Large Community and Special Events
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Costs for permitted special events in the City of Vancouver continue to rise each
year;
2. Some events in the City of Vancouver have been cancelled due to rising costs
required by the City of Vancouver, including but not limited, to the annual Canada
Day Parade, the annual St. Patrick’s Day Parade and the annual Vancouver
Pride Week Davie Street Party;
3. Longstanding annual events that are age friendly and free to the public have
been canceled in the City of Vancouver, due to rising costs related to permits,
policing and road closures required by the City of Vancouver are free, age
friendly and public events;
4. Several community and city recognized events are organized by non-profit
organizations that rely on donors, sponsors and private fundraising to cover
event costs;
5. The City of Vancouver has committed to investing in Arts, Cultural and
Community Events;
6. Currently, there is no information on the City of Vancouver website as to how an
organization, corporation, or private donor can apply to contribute to the City of
Vancouver to costs for a city recognized or community led special events;
7. The City of Vancouver accepts corporate sponsors for large civic events,
including but not limited to “Honda Celebration of Lights” that includes a
“Concord Lounge at the Inukshuk” and “YVR Observation Deck” or the Concord
New Year’s Eve Party;
8. For City of Vancouver recognized events, civic events or events granted permits
by the City of Vancouver, there is no clear schedule of levels suggested for donor
recognition, including but not limited to signage, advertising and logo recognition
on event materials.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 10, 2018 66
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
A. THAT Council direct staff to consider the possibility of a Special Events Fund,
championed by the City of Vancouver, that accepts donations from corporations
and private donors, for free public events in Vancouver that face financial
hardships due to rising city costs.
FURTHER THAT Staff consult with stakeholders including but not limited to the
event production community, event organizers and organizations to develop a
framework, and any terms and conditions for donors and events applying to this
fund.
B. THAT Council direct staff to consider providing cost estimates to potential
sponsors and donors, and potentially create a schedule of typical fees for large
events that demonstrate fee for service and report back to Council with
recommendations by the end of September 2018.
referred
The Mayor noted requests to speak to this motion had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Motion B.3, entitled “City of Vancouver Led Fund for Large Community and
Special Events”, be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
meeting on Wednesday, July 11, 2018, to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03116)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Counicllors Ball and Jang absent for the vote
The Council adjourned at 5:19 pm.
* * * * *