PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JUNE 28 AND JULY 4, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday, June 28, 2018, at 6:09 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the Public Hearing reconvened on
Wednesday, July 4, 2018, at 9:36 am.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer*
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to zoning for Chinatown (HA-1 and HA-1A
Districts).
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson
and Mayor Robertson opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, June 28 and July 4, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A Districts
Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule of the Zoning and
Development By-law and their respective design guidelines to address
community concerns about the changing character and the pace of
development in Chinatown. The amendments include introducing a maximum
net Floor Space Ratio (FSR), changes to maximum building heights,
requirements to provide non-residential uses, provisions for retail mezzanine
and laneway retail spaces, maximum widths for development sites
(i.e. site frontage), and maximum widths for storefronts. Also included is a
recommendation to revoke the Rezoning Policy for Chinatown South (HA-1A).
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated June 22, 2018, from the General Manager,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which provided additional information requested by
Mayor and Council on June 5, 2018, related to the Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled
“Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and
Policies”.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 116 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 1 petition with 1,165 signatures in support of the application;
• 150 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application;
• 2 petitions (69 signatures and 252 signatures), both in opposition to the application; and
• 14 pieces regarding other aspects related to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Gill Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with staff from
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the application
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application. Many of the speakers also suggested
additional amendments to strengthen policies in the areas of heritage preservation, low income
housing and economic revitalization:

Public Hearing
Minutes, June 28 and July 4, 2018 3
Edmund Ma, Vice-Chair, Chinatown Historic Area Planning Committee
Linda Peng Yinchun
Theo G. Kim
Henry Tom
Carol Lee, Vancouver Chinatown Foundation
Kelly Talayco
Vincent Fodera, Jimi Hendrix Shrine Fans and Followers
Hayne Wai
Janice Wong
Louis Lapprend
Doug Halverson
Anne Lam
Melody Ma
Michael Tan
Fred Mah, President, Chinatown Society Heritage Buildings Association
Christopher Leinonen
Angela Kruger
June Chow
Steffanie Ling
Kathy Shimizu
Shirley Chan
William Ma
Bill Yuen Executive Director, Heritage Vancouver Society
Henry Yu
Nathan Edelson
Elizabeth Murphy
David Chen, Chair, ProVancouver Party
John Cassidy
Catherine Kwan
Bob Sung
Todd Wong
Jennifer Podmore Russell, Senior Vice-President, Rennie
Sophia Ng
Kevin Fong
The following spoke in opposition to the application. Concerns raised by speakers included the
timing of the proposed zoning amendments, the absence of an economic impact study, and the
lack of social housing and affordable services for low-income residents:
Alexander Wright
Eric Petit
Andrew Samuel
David Lam
Ameet Johal
Jeffrey Goldberg, Chinatown Voices
Ryan Sung
Jean Swanson
Debbie Gosselin
Derek Lee
Joan Pottinger, Pottinger Holdings
Yu Rong Li
Robert Graf, Pacific Crown Investment Corp
Steve Lee
Michael Sung, Managing Partner, Sasquatch Partners

Public Hearing
Minutes, June 28 and July 4, 2018 4
Lawrence Der, President, Chau Luen Society
Chanel Ly, Yarrow Intergenerational Society for Justice
Yulanda Lui, Yarrow Intergenerational Society for Justice
Joelle Calof, Vice President, I4 Property Group
Wendy Au Yeung
Nathaniel Lowe
Nicolas Yung
Chen Hui Qing
Lili Tang
Ling Ling Wan
Xin Jing Ma
Steven Fast
David Walker
Xia Yu Wu
Shiu Hing Pang
Peter Cheng
Ellis Kwan
Eric Szeto
Nathan Morris
Lily Chang
King Li
Katie Maslechko
* * * * *
At 9:57 pm on June 28, 2018, during the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council extend the meeting until 11 pm to continue hearing speakers.
LOST HAVING NOT RECEIVED
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, De Genova, Jang and Stevenson opposed)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 10:01 pm, and reconvened on July 4, 2018, at 9:38 am,
with Councillor Louie in the Chair.
At 9:53 am, Mayor Robertson arrived and assumed the Chair.
* * * * *
On July 4, 2018, at 12 pm, Council recessed and reconvened at 12:51 pm,
to continue hearing speakers.
* * * * *

Public Hearing
Minutes, June 28 and July 4, 2018 5
On July 4, 2018, the speakers list closed at 2:40 pm and the receipt of public comments closed
at 2:55 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to questions.
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT discussion and decision on the Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled
“Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines
and Policies”, be referred to the Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, July 10, 2018, as
Unfinished Business, with a start time of 2 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03083)
(Councillor Reimer absent for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Reimer absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned on July 4, 2018, at 2:55 pm.
* * * * *