PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JUNE 26, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 26, 2018, at 6:32 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
ABSENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova (Leave of Absence)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign, and
Heritage By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor
Robertson opposed)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 26, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law and
Licence By-law to Align with the Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, was
considered as follows:
Summary: Pending legalization of non-medical cannabis and its sale within a retail outlet,
amendments are proposed to the Zoning and Development By-law and the
Licence By-law to align these regulations with the federal and provincial
regulatory frameworks, expected to be enacted in late summer or early fall
2018.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memo dated June 26, 2018, from the General Manager of
Development, Buildings and Licensing, regarding the legalization of non-medical cannabis, the
scope, roles and responsibilities at federal, provincial and municipal levels, and provided an
assessment of the impact of the new federal and provincial legislation on the City of Vancouver,
and an update on the current status of Medical Marijuana Related Use (MMRU) businesses in
the city.
Staff Opening Comments
Kaye Krishna, General Manager of Development, Buildings and Licensing, drew Council’s
attention to the above-noted memo, and noted staff were present to respond to any questions
Council may have.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• three letters regarding other aspects of the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:43 pm.
Speakers
Council heard from 18 speakers who spoke of concerns related to public health, benefits of
dispensaries as related to jobs and the economy, the 300 m buffer zone in the current
regulations, and the need to ensure access to quality cannabis products:
Denise Brennan, Opiate Substitution Program Coordinator, Eden Medicinal Society
Robert W.E. Laurie, Legal Representative to Vancouver Dispensaries (Ad Lucem Law
Corporation)
Jeremiah Vandermeer, CEO, Cannabis Culture
Ian Dawkins, Acting President, Cannabis Commerce Association of Canada

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 26, 2018 3
Frank Wilson, Principal, Wilson Security
Jaclynn Pehota, Principal, Althing Consulting
Tony Ali
Ehren Richardson, Vice President, Canadian Association of Medical Cannabis
Dispensaries
Don Briere
Jason Lamarche
Taran Mann
Krish Sidhu
Bert Hick, Rising Tide Consultants
Dana Larsen
Neal Magnuson, Director, Cannabis Substition Program
Mason Hnatiw, Weeds, Ltd.
John Cassidy
Carly Bauer
Staff Closing Comments
Kathryn Holm, Director of Licensing, Property Use and Animal Services, responded to speakers
comments and clarified the proposed text amendment under consideration. Ms. Holm and
Ms. Krishna also responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to enable
regulation of non-medical cannabis retail outlets, generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 29, 2018, entitled “Amendments to
Zoning and Development By-law and Licence By-law to Align with the Cannabis
Control and Licensing Act”, be approved.
B. THAT the application to amend the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official
Development Plan By-law to update the land use for non-medical cannabis retail
outlets, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 29,
2018, entitled “Amendments to Zoning and Development By-law and Licence
By-law to Align with the Cannabis Control and Licensing Act”, be approved.
C. THAT, the application to amend the Downtown Official Development Plan By-law
to update the land use for non-medical cannabis retail outlets, generally as set
out in Appendix D of the Policy Report dated May 29, 2018, entitled
“Amendments to Zoning and Development By-law and Licence By-law to Align
with the Cannabis Control and Licensing Act”, be approved.
D. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amending by-laws, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward amendments to the Licence By-law
regarding Cannabis Retail, as outlined in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
May 29, 2018, entitled “Amendments to Zoning and Development By-law and
Licence By-law to Align with the Cannabis Control and Licensing Act”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 26, 2018 4
E. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amending by-laws, the General Manager
of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for
Council adoption, updates to the “Guidelines for Retail Dealer - Medical
Marijuana-Related Uses Near Youth Facilities”, to update the land use
terminology.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03079)
2. REZONING: Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to increase opportunities for
housing choice and to strengthen shopping nodes in Grandview-Woodland. If
approved, the proposed zoning changes would introduce new district
schedules RM-11/RM-11N and RM-12N, amend the C-2 District Schedule,
and rezone certain areas from RS-1, RS-5, RS-7, RT-4, RT-5, and RT-5N to
RM-11, RM-11N, RM-12N, or C-2.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval.
Staff Opening Comments
Chani Joseph, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the application.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing and prior to the
close of receipt of public comments:
• 22 letters in support
• 21 letters opposed
• 4 letters regarding other aspects of the application.
The speakers list closed at 10:25 pm. The receipt of public comments closed at 10:40 pm.
Speakers
The following five individuals spoke generally in support of the application, but noted concerns
with the location of new housing, the need for more rental housing, and traffic:
Stuart Smith
Glen Lougheed
Craig Jorgenson, Generation Squeeze
Mauro
Laurel

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 26, 2018 5
The following 15 individuals spoke in general opposition to the application, noting concerns with
the RM-11, RM-12N, and C-2 zoning, the height of proposed buildings where single-family
homes currently exist, and that this rezoning deviates from the Grandview-Woodlands
Community Plan:
Joe McGovern
Suzan Gregg
Jack Gregg
Anita Olson
Ron Anstey
Jane Henry
Alan LeCouteur
Jean-Marc Freeman
Graham Bailey
Steve Yuen
Peter Perugini
Andrew Leonard
Stephen Bohus
Ron Fisher & Sheila Leonard
Carol Rosset
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the length of the meeting be extended to hear speakers on all items.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
Staff Closing Comments
Paula Huber, Senior Planner, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to
questions.
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT discussion and decision on the application “REZONING: Increasing Housing
Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law” be referred to the Regular Council Meeting on July 10, 2018, as
Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03081)
(Councillors Ball and Jang absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 26, 2018 6
3. REZONING: 1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive
An application by Perkins+Will was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive from
RM-4 (Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District to permit the development of an 11-storey residential building with a
five-storey podium, comprised of secured market rental units and strata-titled
market housing units, along with the relocation, designation and protection of
a heritage home currently at 1853-1857 East 11th Avenue, for a combined
total of 138 residential units. The exterior of the heritage building will be
designated through a Heritage Designation By-law, which will ensure
protection of the building from inappropriate alterations and demolition in the
future. A height of 33.5 m (110 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.60 are
proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Mateja Seaton, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions asked by
Council when the application was referred to Public Hearing.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing:
• two letters in support
• five letters opposed
• one letter regarding other aspects of the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:47 pm.
Speakers
Kelly Talayco noted concerns with communication between staff and residents when developing
and writing down neighbourhood preferences.
Marty Balas noted the proposed building is too big and not appropriate for the neighbournood.
Stuart Smith and Jennifer Wilks spoke in general support of the application, noting there is an
excess of parking proposed and the need for more family housing in the area.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 26, 2018 7
Applicant Closing Comments
David Dove, Perkins+Will, thanked staff for holding them to a high standard, thereby improving
the proposal, and responded to concerns raised by the speakers.
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT discussion and decision on the application “REZONING: 1837-1857 East 11th
Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive” be referred to the Regular Council Meeting on
July 10, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03082)
(Councillors Ball, Jang and Stevenson absent for the vote)
4. REZONING: 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of the Facades of
the Northern Electric Company Building
An application by GBL Architects Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone the 118-150 Robson Street from DD (Downtown) District to a CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to construct a 29-storey mixed-use
development that includes strata residential units, a hotel, and retail and
service uses at grade. Heritage façades of the existing Northern Electric
Company building will be retained and rehabilitated and designated as
protected heritage property. A height of 87.2 m (286 ft.) and a floor space ratio
(FSR) of 10.07 are proposed
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Yan Zeng, Senior Planner, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions
asked by Council at the time the application was referred to Public Hearing.
Applicant Comments
Chris Quigley, Amacon, provided an overview of the application.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since referral to public hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 26, 2018 8
• nine letters in support
• two letters opposed
The speakers list closed and receipt of public comments closed at 11:34 pm.
Speakers
James Borkowski, Archbishop’s Delegate of Operations, Archdiocese of Vancouver, spoke in
support of the application, noting it will help the church increase its support services, including
the addition of a new women’s shelter.
The following spoke in opposition to the application, noting concerns with the effects of the
development on the character of the neighbourhood and businesses in the area.
Carolyn Williams, Owner, The Bar Method
Kyla Lee, Acumen Law
Paul Doroshenko, Acumen Law
John Cassidy
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT discussion and decision on the application “REZONING: 118-150 Robson Street
and Heritage Designation of the Facades of the Northern Electric Company Building” be
referred to the Regular Council Meeting on July 10, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03080)
(Councillors Ball and Jang absent for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Ball and Jang absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 11:35 pm.
* * * * *