REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JUNE 6, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held
on Wednesday, June 6, 2018, at 9:35 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Heather Deal, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council adopt Item 3, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 2
1. Contract Award for CNG Combination Sewer Cleaner Trucks
May 8, 2018
Engineering Services staff presented on items 1 and 2 concurrently, and responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering, Director of Legal Services, and Chief Purchasing
Official, and enter into a contract with Vimar Equipment Ltd. to supply and deliver
five CNG Combination Sewer Cleaner Trucks (Sewer Cleaner Trucks). The
estimated contract value is $2,923,430 plus applicable taxes. The contract term will
be three (3) years, with the option to extend for two (2) additional one (1) year terms
to be funded through the 2015-2018 Fleet & Equipment Replacement Capital Plan.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and General
Manager of Engineering be authorized to execute on behalf of the City the contract
contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and B
above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories of
the City.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02970)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
2. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Medium and Heavy Duty Electric Trucks
May 24, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering, City’s Director of Legal Services, and the City’s
Chief Procurement Officer and enter into contracts with BYD Motors, Inc. (BYD) and
Cullen Western Star on behalf of Mitsubishi (Mitsubishi), for supply and delivery of
medium and heavy duty electric trucks, for a term of three (3) years, with the option
to extend for two (2) additional one(1) year terms, with the current combined
estimated value of the contracts expected to be $10,700,000, plus applicable taxes
over the initial three-year term, to be funded through the approved Vehicle
Replacement Capital budgets.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Engineering be authorized to execute on behalf of the City the contract
contemplated by A above.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 3
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and B
above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories of
the City.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02971)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
3. Appointment of Non-Profit Operator and Modification of Leases for #280 and #250 -
111 West Hastings Street
May 2, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve Vancouver Community Network (“VCN”) as a social non-
profit tenant of approximately 327 square feet (rentable area) of office space at unit
#203 on the second floor of the Woodward’s Heritage Building at 111 West Hastings
Street (“Room #203”).
B. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute the modification of an existing lease with VCN for unit #280 – 111 West
Hastings Street (the “VCN Modification”), to include the addition of Room #203, at a
nominal rate and on the same terms and conditions set out in the existing lease, and
upon such other terms and conditions to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services in consultation with the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management and the General Manager of Arts, Culture, and Community Services;
FURTHER THAT as the rent for the additional premises will be below the applicable
market rate and includes rent-in-lieu of property taxes, the above-noted lease
constitutes a grant valued at approximately $8,500 per annum based on the first
year of the term.
C. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute the modification of an existing lease with Kokoro Dance Theatre Society
(“Kokoro”) for unit #250 – 111 West Hastings Street (the “Kokoro Modification”), to
exclude Room #203 from their leased premises, and to include the addition of unit
#230 – 111 West Hastings Street, at a nominal rate and on the same terms and
conditions set out in the existing lease, and upon such other terms and conditions to
the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services in consultation with the General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management and the General Manager of
Arts, Culture, and Community Services;
FURTHER THAT the change in the room allocation within the leased premise of the
Kokoro lease results in an increase in rentable floor area of an additional 74 square
feet. As such, as the rent attributable to the increased floor area will be below the
applicable market rate and includes rent-in-lieu of property taxes, the above-noted
lease constitutes a grant valued at approximately $1,900 per annum based on the
first year of the term.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 4
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations be created or arise by Council’s adoption of A, B
and C above until the modification of lease has been executed by all parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02978)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
4. Randomized Ballot Name Order - Proposed Amendments to the Election By-law No.
9070
April 26, 2018
Rosemary Hagiwara, Chief Election Officer, reviewed the report and responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker opposed to the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the following increases to the 2018 election budget in
support of implementing a randomized ballot name order for the 2018 municipal
election:
i. $175,000 for implementing communication and public outreach strategies;
source of funding is the City’s 2018 Council contingency budget; and
ii. $60,000 for additional staff at voting places; source of funding is the City’s
2018 Council contingency budget.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, the proposed amendments to Election By-law
No. 9070 as set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated April 26, 2018,
entitled “Randomized Ballot Name Order - Proposed Amendments to the Election
By-law No. 9070”.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment an
amending by-law substantially in the form of the by-law attached as Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated April 26, 2018, entitled “Randomized Ballot Name Order
- Proposed Amendments to the Election By-law No. 9070”.
D. THAT Council receives for information considerations for including candidate
photographs on the ballot as presented in the Administrative Report dated
April 26, 2018, entitled “Randomized Ballot Name Order - Proposed Amendments to
the Election By-law No. 9070”.
carried

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 5
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT this report be referred to staff, for further analysis of the pros and cons of randomized
ballot name order and ballot inclusion of candidate photographs for Council’s consideration
for the next Vancouver election following the 2018 municipal election, and that appropriate
City of Vancouver advisory committees be consulted.
LOST (Vote No. 02972)
(Councillors Affleck, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
* * * * *
At 10:48 am, during debate on the motion, Councillor De Genova rose on a point of order,
submitting that under section 5.2 (f) of the Procedure By-Law, Councillor Reimer mischaracterized
her absence from an Advisory Body to which she is liaison. The Chair ruled in support of Councillor
De Genova’s point of order.
* * * * *
At 10:50 am, during debate on the motion, Councillor Bremner rose on a point of order, submitting
that under section 5.2 (f) of the Procedure By-Law, Councillor Reimer mischaracterized his
previous statement. The Chair ruled in support of Councillor Bremner’s point of order.
* * * * *
The referral having lost, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 02976)
(Councillors Ball, Carr and De Genova opposed)
5. Conversion Therapy
At the Regular Council meeting on June 5, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the following
items to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on June 6, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the motion.
The following motion contains changes to the original motion which were accepted by the
Committee.
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Council of the City of Vancouver is strongly committed to supporting the
equality and human rights of the LGBTQ2+ community and all city residents;
2. “Sex”, “sexual orientation” and “gender identity or expression” are prohibited
grounds of discrimination in the BC Human Rights Code;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 6
3. The practice of “conversion therapy” or “reparative therapy”, pseudo-scientific
techniques that attempt to persuade persons to change their sexual orientation or
gender identity, is seriously harmful to persons and is opposed by the Canadian
Psychological Association, the World Health Organization, the American Psychiatric
Association, the American Medical Association and others;
4. Governments are recognizing the harms of “conversion therapy” and taking steps to
ban its practice:
a. In 2015, the province of Ontario adopted the Affirming Sexual Orientation
and Gender Identity Act to ban “conversion therapy” and prohibit
practitioners from billing for the practice through public health insurance;
b. In 2015, the province of Manitoba passed a health regulation banning
“conversion therapy”; and
c. In 2018, the European parliament voted to ban “conversion therapy” in
member states of the European Union;
5. The Council of the City of Vancouver is authorized to prohibit businesses, with a
unanimous vote of Council, under section 203(d) of the Vancouver Charter and has
prohibited a variety of businesses under the Business Prohibition By-law No. 5156.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council support, in principle, amending the Business Prohibition
By-law No. 5156, to prohibit the business of providing “conversion therapy”.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be directed to bring forward for enactment an
amendment to the Business Prohibition By-law in accordance with this resolution.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02974)
6. Rainbow Crosswalk
At the Regular Council meeting on June 5, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the following
items to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on June 6, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. As identified in Trans*, Gender Variant and Two-Spirit Inclusion at the City of
Vancouver Report (2016) and by Saewyc, Poon, Kovaleva, Tourand, and Smith
(2016), LGBTQ2S+ people in BC experience significantly higher rates of bullying,
harassment and suicide than other populations, and the lack of visible
representations of LGBTQ2S+ people in the broader community exacerbates these
harms;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 7
2. Vancouver has taken a leadership role in protecting LGBTQ2S+ people in our city.
Several local governments in British Columbia are being asked to increase visible
representation of the LGBTQ2S+ community by installing rainbow crosswalks and
are unsure how to proceed. Standardized guidelines on implementing such projects
do not yet exist in BC.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee recommends
that Council put forward the following motion at the Union of BC Municipalities meeting in
2018:
“RAINBOW CROSSWALKS”
WHEREAS
1. LGBTQ2S+ people in British Columbia experience significantly higher rates
of bullying, harassment and suicide than other populations and a lack of
visible representation of LGBTQ2S+ community exacerbates these harms;
2. A number of local governments in BC are being asked to increase visible
representation of the LGBTQ2S+ community through the installation of
rainbow crosswalks and would benefit from standardized guidelines on how
to implement such projects.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Government of British Columbia be
requested to inform and advise local governments on best practices to handle such
requests, and to provide financial and technical support to local governments
regarding visual representations of the LGBTQ2S+ community, such as rainbow
crosswalks.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02975)
The Committee adjourned at 11:47 am.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JUNE 6, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, June 6, 2018,
at 11:47 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, June 6, 2018
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Contract Award for CNG Combination Sewer Cleaner Trucks
2. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Medium and Heavy Duty Electric Trucks
3. Appointment of Non-Profit Operator and Modification of Leases for #280 and
#250 - 111 West Hastings Street
4. Randomized Ballot Name Order - Proposed Amendments to the Election
By-law No. 9070
5. Conversion Therapy
6. Rainbow Crosswalk

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 2
Items 1 - 6
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of June 6, 2018, as contained in Items 1 to 6, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
ITEM 3 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to enact the By-laws prior to considering the
Urgent Business item.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AND BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Note: For clarity, the following agenda items are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 and 2,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend the Official Development Plan By-law No. 9488 regarding
amendments to further protect rental housing stock, and housekeeping updates
(By-law No. 12114)
2. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 regarding amendments
related to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan By-law No. 9488
(By-law No. 12115)

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 6, 2018 3
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Strata Title and Cooperative Conversion Guidelines
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the amendments to the document entitled “Strata Title and Cooperative
Conversion Guidelines”, as approved by Council at the Public Hearing on June 5, 2018,
be adopted for use by applicants and staff for development applications in the relevant
districts.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 11:49 am.
* * * * *