PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JUNE 5, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 5, 2018, at 6:09 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor
Robertson opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and Development,
Sign and Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer District Official Development Plan
By-laws
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make miscellaneous amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign,
and Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan By-laws in
order to improve clarity, update terminology or address inadvertent errors or
omissions and to better streamline the development review process. Notable
amendments include the clarification of the RT-5 and RT-5N District
Schedules, the addition of Temporary Sales Offices as Outright Approved Use
in the C-1, C-2, C-3A, C-5, C-5A and C-6, C-7 and C-8, FC-1, MC-1 and
MC-2, IC-1 and IC-2 and HA-1 and HA-1A District Schedules, and the
addition of Temporary Sales Offices as Conditional Use in the FM-1, I-1, I-1A
and I-1B and FC-2 (sub-areas A and E).
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated June 5, 2018, from the Assistant Director of
Planning, City-wide and Regional Planning, which brought forward a correction to the Zoning
and Development By-law amendments proposed in the report dated April 17, 2018, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and Development, Sign and Downtown-Eastside/
Oppenheimer District Official Development Plan By-laws” regarding “Temporary Sales Office”
and clarified that this Use is only applicable to RS and RT zones. Since referral, staff
recommended revisions to the posted draft by-law amending the Zoning and Development
By-law as follows:
THAT the definition of General Office in Section 2 of the Zoning and Development
By-law be amended to read as follows:
“General Office, which means the use of premises for any office use, including
Digital Entertainment and Information Communication Technology but does not
include Financial Institution, Health Care Office, Health Enhancement Centre or
Temporary Sales Office;”
THAT the definition of Temporary Sales Office in Section 2 of the Zoning and
Development By-law be amended to read as follows:
“Temporary Sales Office, which means the use of a building in a RS or RT zone,
for a period not exceeding three years, for the sole purpose of marketing and
selling dwelling units associated with a residential development.”
THAT Council remove the following proposed amendments:
“14. In section 2.2.O [Office] of the C-1, C-2, C-3A, C-5, C-5A and C-6, C-7 and
C-8, FC-1, MC-1 and MC-2, IC-1 and IC-2 and HA-1 and HA-1A Districts
Schedules, Council adds in alphabetical order “Temporary Sales Office.”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 3
15. In section 3.2.O [Office] of the FM-1, I-1, I-1A, and I-1B Districts Schedules,
Council adds in alphabetical order “Temporary Sales Office.”.
16. In section 3.2.1.O [Office] of the FC-2 District Schedule, Council adds in
alphabetical order “Temporary Sales Office, but only in sub-areas A and E as
shown in Figure 1.”
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the enactment
By-law with the proposed changes described above.
Staff Opening Comments
Hayley Hoikka, Planning Analyst, and Michelle McGuire, Senior Regulatory Policy Planner, both
from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided clarification on the application and
responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to
Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 1 piece of correspondence in support of the application;
 35 pieces of correspondence opposed; and
 1 piece in the other category.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition of the application, expressing concerns related to the HA-1
and HA-1A zoning district:
Frantz De Rycke
John Atkin
Melody Ma
Daniel Pon
Janice Wong
Karen Ward
Joseph Malone
Jane Shi
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:51 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Ms. McGuire responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 4
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments - Zoning and Development,
Sign and Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer District Official Development Plan
By-laws”, to:
(i) amend the definition for Character House in Section 2 to insert a
semicolon rather than a period that was added in error;
(ii) amend Section 3.2.7 to remove a comma that was inadvertently inserted
after RT-5 in the list of District Schedules;
(iii) amend Section 3.2.7 to include the RM-10 and RM-10N Districts
Schedule in the list of District Schedules that was omitted in error;
(iv) amend Section 5.14 to correct an error in where the RM-10 and RM-10N
Districts Schedule was inserted in the section;
(v) amend Section 11.32 to correct an error in numbering;
(vi) amend the RS-1, RS-1A, RS-1B, RS-2, RS-3 and RS-3A, RS-4, RS-5,
RS-6, RS-7 District Schedules to include a period that was inadvertently
omitted;
(vii) amend Section 1 of the RS-1A District Schedule to remove a period that
was inserted in error in the middle of the last sentence;
(viii) amend Section 4.7.1 in the RS-6 District Schedule to correct an error in
numbering;
(ix) amend the RS-7 District Schedule to:
1. amend Section 1 to delete duplicate wording that was
inadvertently inserted;
2. amend Section 4.3.2 to insert a bracket that was inadvertently
omitted;
(x) amend the RT-5 and RT-5N Districts Schedule to:
1. amend Section 3.2.1.DW to correct the date to January 16, 2018;
2. amend Section 4.6.1 to allow more flexibility around the rear yard
requirement for lots with an average depth exceeding 36.5 m;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 5
3. amend Section 4.7.6 (d) to insert a colon at the end of the
subsection that was inadvertently omitted;
4. amend Section 4.18.1 to specify that the calculation for the total
number of dwellings units for a site applies to larger sites that
meet the minimum site area requirement for a Multiple Dwelling or
sites with a Character House;
5. Insert Section 4.18.2 to clarify that the total number of dwelling
units for all sites, excluding sites that meet the minimum site area
requirement for a Multiple Dwelling or sites with a Character
House, shall not exceed 2, excluding secondary suites and
lock-off units;
(xi) amend the RT-6 District Schedule to:
1. amend Section 4.7.6 (e) to insert a colon at the end of the
subsection that was inadvertently omitted in error;
2. amend Section 5.5 to correct an error in numbering;
(xii) amend the RM-10 and RM-10N Districts Schedule to:
1. correct omissions of the date of enactment in Sections 2.2.DW
and 3.2.DW;
2. amend Section 4.4.3 to fix an incorrect section reference;
3. amend Sections 4.5.2 and 4.6.3 to correct an error in spacing;
4. amend Sections 4.7.2(b), 4.7.3(a), 4.7.3(b), 4.7.4, 4.7.5, and
4.7.9(d)(i) to correct an error in punctuation;
5. amend Section 4.7.9(c)(i) to update terminology;
6. amend Section 4.7.9(j) to correct an error in numbering;
7. amend Section 5.1 to reformat the section to provide clarity;
(xiii) amend the C-1, C-2, C-3A, C-5, C-5A and C-6, C-7 and C-8, FC-1, MC-1
and MC-2, IC-1 and IC-2 and HA-1 and HA-1A District Schedules to
include Temporary Sales office as an Outright Approval Use;
(xiv) amend the FM-1, I-1, I-1A and I-1B District Schedules to include
Temporary Sales Office as a Conditional Approval Use;
(xv) amend the FC-2 District Schedule to include Temporary Sales Office as a
Conditional Approval Use but only in sub-areas A and E as shown in
Figure 1 of the District Schedule; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 6
(xvi) amend Schedule G - Stipulated Rents at Initial Occupancy for Secured
Market Rental Housing to rename it as Schedule H Stipulated Rents at
Initial Occupancy for Secured Market Rental Housing, due to a
duplication in Schedule names.
B. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sign By-law, generally as
presented in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments - Zoning and Development, Sign and
Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer District Official Development Plan By-laws”,
to:
(i) amend Section 2.1 to clarify that signs not intended to be seen from the
street are not regulated by the Sign By-law;
(ii) amend Section 6.18 to allow a sign with neon or neon-like LED lighting as
a window sign that does not require a permit;
(iii) delete Subsections 9.11 (o), 9.11 (i), 10.7 (o), 10.7 (i), 12.7 (o), 12.7 (i),
13.8 (n), 13.8 (i), 14.7 (l), 14.7 (i) to allow business identification signs in
commercial lanes in response to the approved Council motion on
February 20, 2018; and
(iv) amend Sections 9.20, 10.15, 11.12, 12.14 and 13.15 to insert the height
restriction for Projecting Signs that was inadvertently deleted and to
delete the old subsection(s) limiting the number of Projecting Signs for a
premises that was not deleted due to an error in numbering.
C. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Downtown-Eastside/
Oppenheimer Official Development Plan By-law, generally as presented in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled “Miscellaneous
Amendments - Zoning and Development, Sign and Downtown-Eastside/
Oppenheimer District Official Development Plan By-laws” to amend Section 4.2.1
to correct an error in numbering.
D. THAT the definition of General Office in Section 2 of the Zoning and
Development By-law be amended to read as follows:
“General Office, which means the use of premises for any office use,
including Digital Entertainment and Information Communication
Technology but does not include Financial Institution, Health Care Office,
Health Enhancement Centre or Temporary Sales Office;”
E. THAT the definition of Temporary Sales Office in Section 2 of the Zoning and
Development By-law be amended to read as follows:
“Temporary Sales Office, which means the use of a building in a RS or
RT zone, for a period not exceeding three years, for the sole purpose of
marketing and selling dwelling units associated with a residential
development.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 7
F. THAT Council remove the following proposed amendments:
“14. In section 2.2.O [Office] of the C-1, C-2, C-3A, C-5, C-5A and C-6, C-
7 and C-8, FC-1, MC-1 and MC-2, IC-1 and IC-2 and HA-1 and HA-1A
Districts Schedules, Council adds in alphabetical order “Temporary Sales
Office.”.
15. In section 3.2.O [Office] of the FM-1, I-1, I-1A, and I-1B Districts
Schedules, Council adds in alphabetical order “Temporary Sales Office.”.
16. In section 3.2.1.O [Office] of the FC-2 District Schedule, Council adds
in alphabetical order “Temporary Sales Office, but only in sub-areas A
and E as shown in Figure 1.”
G. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the enactment
By-law with the proposed changes described in D, E and F above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02954)
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: Text Amendments to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
By-laws to enable Public Bike Share
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the by-laws for 17 CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) Districts to
enable Public Bike Share as a permitted use within those districts and to add
14 new locations to the area where Public Bike Share is permitted as
described in section 10.36.1 of the Zoning and Development By-law. The
proposed amendments achieve the intent of earlier zoning and development
permit approval processes and correct inadvertent omissions.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred for public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Joseph Malone spoke in support of the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:01 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 8
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council approve the application, generally presented in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated May 1, 2018, entitled “Text Amendments to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) By-laws to enable Public Bike Share”, to:
(i) amend 17 CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) By-laws to include Public
Bike Share as a permitted use; and
(ii) amend Section 10.36.1 of the Zoning and Development By-law by adding
14 site locations to the Public Bike Share service area.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02955)
3. TEXT AMENDMENT: Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock – Building
Reinvestment Actions and Amendments to the Rental Housing Stock Official
Development Plan
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To better protect and retain the existing rental stock in Vancouver,
amendments are proposed to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development
Plan and the associated zoning districts that are intended to provide clarity in
the implementation process. As well, measures are proposed to encourage
reinvestment in the existing stock, including support for owners of
purpose-built rental buildings, and potential policy measures by the City and
senior governments to incentivize needed improvements and strengthen
protections for renters.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Staff Opening Comments
Edna Cho and Sarah Ellis, Planners, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the
application and responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
Two pieces of correspondence in support of the application had been received since the
application was referred to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt
of public comments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 9
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Rachel Selinger, Metro Vancouver Housing Strategist, Generation Squeeze, spoke in support of
the application and Liam McClure, Tenant Advocate, Vancouver Tenants Union, spoke in
opposition.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:47 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Official Development Plan
Regarding Areas of Real Property in Certain RM, FM and CD-1 Zoning Districts
(the “Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan”), relating to the RM-2,
RM-3, RM-3A, RM-4 and RM-4N, RM-5, RM-5A, RM-5B and RM-5C, RM-5D,
RM-6, and FM-1 District or District Schedules, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled “Measures to
Retain the Rental Housing Stock - Building Reinvestment Actions and
Amendments to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan”, to achieve
the following:
(i) Revise the rental housing policy in Section 2.4 to:
a. lower the “trigger” for when rental replacement is required from six
or more units to three or more units, in order to better protect the
rental stock;
b. ensure residential dwelling types with three or more units,
including multiple conversion dwellings, are subject to rental
replacement requirements; and
c. clarify rental replacement obligations, including:
• 35 per cent family housing requirement for new developments
and major renovations;
• discretion for less than one for one replacement for
renovations where the existing rental units are sleeping or
housekeeping units, with the objective of maximizing rental
replacement with fully self-contained units;
(ii) remove the definition for “rate of change” in Section 1 to simplify and
strengthen rental replacement requirements, by decoupling the
requirements from changes in the stock; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 10
(iii) revise the definition of “rental housing unit” in Section 1 to clarify when
rental replacement is required, including an exclusion for units in hotels
and in stratified building(s) where the majority of the units were
individually owned within the last three years and the building is in the
process of dissolving the strata corporation for the purposes of
redevelopment.
B. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law to require rental replacement for new developments having three or more
dwelling units in the RM-2, RM-3, RM-3A, RM-4 and RM-4N, RM-5, RM-5A,
RM-5B and RM-5C, RM-5D, RM-6, and FM-1 District Schedules generally as
presented in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled
“Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock - Building Reinvestment Actions
and Amendments to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan”.
C. THAT, to provide guidance in the administration of the provisions of the Rental
Housing Stock Official Development Plan, the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to prepare and issue an
Administrative Bulletin for use by staff and applicants, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report April 17, 2018, entitled “Measures to Retain the
Rental Housing Stock - Building Reinvestment Actions and Amendments to the
Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability bring
forward revisions to the “Strata Title and Cooperative Conversion Guidelines”,
generally as set out in Appendix D of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018,
entitled “Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock - Building Reinvestment
Actions and Amendments to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development
Plan”, to require that the conversion of a development under the Strata Property
Act or Cooperative Association Act meets requirements aligning with the
revisions to the Zoning and Development By-law.
E. THAT Council receive for information the findings of the Building Reinvestment
Study as contained in Appendix E of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018,
entitled “Measures to Retain the Rental Housing Stock - Building Reinvestment
Actions and Amendments to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development
Plan”.
F. THAT Council instruct staff to explore a partnership with LandlordBC on a pilot
program to support existing landlords with capital and energy planning through
building condition and energy assessments in existing rental buildings, as set out
in Appendix G of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled “Measures to
Retain the Rental Housing Stock - Building Reinvestment Actions and
Amendments to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan”;
FURTHER THAT the source of funds for the start-up budget of the pilot program,
anticipated to be $100,000, is to be accommodated within the existing 2018
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability operating budget.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 11
G. THAT Council direct staff to ensure all City of Vancouver procurement policies
and best practices are followed in this sole source procurement.
H. THAT Council instruct staff to explore options to encourage reinvestment in the
existing rental stock, including:
(i) exploring the feasibility of municipal tools to encourage improvements in
existing rental housing; and
(ii) working with senior governments to encourage the development of
programs to support capital and energy efficient upgrades, such as
financing, tax incentives, grant assistance, and initiatives to promote
long-term capital and energy-efficiency planning.
I. THAT Council direct staff to continue discussions with the Province for enhanced
protection under the Residential Tenancy Act (RTA) in the case of renovations
and redevelopment of existing rental housing.
J. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the impact and implications of
implementing the Province’s proposed charter changes allowing zoning for rental
tenure; and applying this to areas covered by the Rental Housing Stock Official
Development Plan.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02969)
4. REZONING: 3510 Fraser Street
An application by DYS Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 3510 Fraser Street from C-2 (Commercial) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to permit the development of a six-storey mixed-use
development with a seniors centre at-grade and 58 secured seniors social
housing units above. A height of 21.1 metres (72.5 feet) and a floor space ratio
(FSR) of 3.5 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated May 30, 2018, from the Assistant Director,
Rezoning Centre, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which recommended
amendments to the draft CD-1 By-law in Appendix A of the Policy Report May 1, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 3510 Fraser Street”. Since referral, staff determined a revision is required to
the posted draft CD-1 By-law posted for 3510 Fraser Street as follows:
THAT subsection 4.4 (c) of the draft CD-1 By-law posted for 3510 Fraser Street be
amended as follows:
4.4 (c) where floors are used for off-street parking and loading, the taking on or
discharging of passengers, bicycle storage, heating and mechanical

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 12
equipment or uses which in the opinion of the Director of Planning are
similar to the foregoing, those floors or portions thereof so used which are
at or below the base surface, except that the Director of Planning may
also permit the exclusion of such floors or portions of floors that are
located above base surface, provided that the maximum exclusion for a
parking space shall not exceed 7.3 m in length;
Staff Opening Comments
Sarah Crowley, Rezoning Planner, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the
application and responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Tiffany Duzita, Director, Community Land Trust, provided comments on the application and,
along with Stuart Alcock, President, 411 Seniors Centre Society, responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
One piece of correspondence in opposition of the application had been received since the
application was referred to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt
of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Anthony Kupferschmidt, Executive Director, West End Seniors’ Network
Stuart Alcock, President, 411 Seniors Centre Society
Joseph Malone
Owen Brady
Jenna MacLellan spoke in opposition to the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:39 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Luke Harrison, Director/Chief Executive Officer, Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency,
provided closing comments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 13
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by DYS Architecture (DYS) on behalf of Vancouver
Affordable Housing Agency (VAHA), as agent for the registered owner, the City
of Vancouver (the City), to rezone 3510 Fraser Street [Lot A Block 54 District Lot
301, Group 1 New Westminster District Plan BCP50970, PID 028-868-218] from
C-2 (Commercial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.5 to 3.5 and the maximum building
height from 13.8 m (45 ft.) to 21.1 m (72.5 ft.) to permit the development of a six-
storey mixed-use building with a seniors centre at grade and 58 secured seniors
social housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated May 1, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3510 Fraser Street”, be approved
subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by DYS Architecture and stamped
“Received City Planning Department, March 23, 2018”, subject to the
following conditions, provided that the Director of Planning may allow
minor alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the common amenities, as
follows:
(i) Convert the north-east units on Levels 4 and 5 to amenity
rooms;
(ii) Add access doors and substantial glazing, to connect the
amenity rooms to the adjacent rooftop terraces;
(iii) Consider converting the proposed amenity room at Level 6
into two studio units;
Note to Applicant: East elevation, Level 6, may become more
solid.
2. Design development to reduce apparent bulk and massing on the
east side of the building, and improve the interface to the RS-1
neighbour, as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 14
(i) Remove the projecting terrace at the south end of the
building, Level 2;
(ii) Remove the balcony at the north-east corner, Level 6;
(iii) Further animate the east elevation by adding windows and,
where feasible, increasing the size/height of strip windows;
Note to Applicant: The three private balconies should be
reconfigured to more closely align with floor below. Consider
deleting the shared terrace and replacing with a low-maintenance
gravel roof. To achieve a more neighbourly expression, it’s
recommended to add and/or increase windows particularly at
Levels 2 and 3.
3. Design development to improve the building elevations, as
follows:
(i) Delete sunshades on north and east elevations;
(ii) Consider adding sunshades to the west (Fraser Street)
elevation;
(iii) Refine the dark grey “frame” element;
(iv) Consider using a lighter-coloured exterior cladding inside
the inset balconies the inset balconies (ie. at the
north-west corner);
(v) Consider lowering the weather canopy to approximately
3.5m above grade (where the white band is currently
indicated), to improve its performance and create a more
“enclosed” sidewalk space.
Note to Applicant: Sunshades should be integrated into a rational
passive design approach. To improve the legibility of the “frame”
element, a significant change in plane between the frame and the
brown inset should be created. There should also be a rational,
consistent approach to how the frame wraps corners.
4. Submission of a bird friendly strategy for the design of the building
and landscape is encouraged in the application for a development
permit;
Note to Applicant: Strategy should identify any particular risks with
regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose design
features or to reduce these risks. For more information, see the
guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 15
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
5. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the parking area;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Sustainability
6. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Landscape Design
7. Design development to expand the size and programming of
common amenity space(s) to provide a more usable space;
Note to applicant: This should include additional opportunities for
social interaction, such as additional benches and seat walls for
passive seating and gathering. Urban agriculture plots should
follow the City’s Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the Private
Realm and include infrastructure required, such as potting
benches, hose bibs, etc. Garden plots should be wheelchair
accessible.
8. Design development to improve privacy and mitigate overlook of
the common terraces on Levels 2 and 4 onto neighbouring site to
the east, by relocating and/or adding planting beds along the east
edge.
Note to Applicant: The plants should be visible from the
neighbouring property.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 16
9. Design development to buffer the surface parking area by the
addition of substantially more planting beds, to include the
addition of minimum three significant, larger scale deciduous trees
on site, for the provision of a higher quality landscape and
additional future canopy.
10. Provision of a revised arborist report to recommend tree protection
measures for the two retained trees on the east neighbouring site,
in context of the proposed site plan.
Note to Applicant: A Letter of Assurance should also be submitted
to ensure that arborist will supervise any work within the tree
protection zones.
11. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
12. Consideration to improve sustainability by the provision of an
extensive green roof.
13. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant
sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light fixtures,
site grading and other landscape features. Plant material
should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the
Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should be a
minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should match the
architectural site plan.
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2"=1'-0" scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours
and trellises, and other features. Planter section details
should show dimensioned rootballs to confirm depth of
proposed planting on structures is deep enough to
accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the
future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standard.
(iii) A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided
for all planted areas.
(iv) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 17
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
(v) Provision of improved graphic readability by deleting grey
tones to ensure the plan reads well in black and white.
Engineering
14. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces shall be provided and
maintained according to the provisions of the Vancouver Parking
By-Law
Note to Applicant: Parking relaxations will apply to the site and
shall be discussed in full at the Development Permit stage. (See
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 3510 Fraser Street”)
15. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
16. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
17. Provision of a new driveway crossing to current standards on
East 19th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: A crossing application is required.
18. Provision of a wide, continuous weather protection on both
frontages.
Note to Applicant: A separate application is required to the
General Manager of Engineering Services for any canopy/awning
encroaching over public property. Canopies are to be fully
demountable and drained to the buildings internal drainage
systems and should consider the final sidewalk location and
widths such that the drip line is achieving maximum weather
protection for the sidewalk users.
19. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from the
location shown without reliance of the lane for extended bin

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 18
storage If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent to the street.
20. Provision of an updated landscape plan to reflect the offsite
improvements being sought in the rezoning is required. The
following statements are to be noted on the landscape plan:
(i) All sidewalks between the curb and property line are to be
reconstructed fully at the applicant’s expense.”
(ii) The landscape plan is to be noted as “NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No
work on public property may begin until such plans receive
“For Construction” approval and related permits are issued.
Please contact Engineering, Development Services and/or
your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
21. Installation of parking regulatory signage on Fraser Street and
East 19th Avenue adjacent the site to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services”.
22. Design development to resolve conflict between drive aisle and
bike room access.
23. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room and note on plans.
24. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Dimension maneuvering aisle width.
(ii) Additional parking space width is required for parking
space 2.
(iii) Provide dimensions showing length and width of parking
spaces.
(iv) Provision of additional information on the drawings
showing the vertical clearance from the drive aisle surface
to the portion of the building on level 2.
(v) Dimension bike storage locker sizes and dimension the
access aisle widths within the bike room.
(vi) Provision of Class B bicycle parking on private property as
per the Parking By-Law.
(vii) Provision of disability parking requirements.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 19
Refer to the Parking and Loading Design Guidelines at the
following link: http://vancouver.ca/home-property-
development/parking-policies-guidelines.aspx
25. Staff are seeking a detailed response toward the IRMP
requirements outlined in the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings.
As the project moves to detailed design, provide a revised
Rainwater Management Plan (RMP), that details how the
rainwater management system meets the IRMP requirements for
quantity and quality and addresses the following:
(i) How will the 600 mm of peat be addressed in the
construction? Will it be removed? If it remains in place,
then is there a strategy to deal with settling or for keeping
moisture in the peat? This should be considered in the
rainwater management plan.
(ii) The stormwater management report indicates there is
limited potential for infiltration. What infiltration rate used
for the detention/infiltration system sizing? What will the
drain down time be for a full 24 mm event?
(iii) If the 20.9 m3 infiltration will not be achieved through the
detention system, then consider a green roof. The volume
retained in the green roof can be applied to the 24 mm
retention goal.
(iv) It is noted that a portion of the paved parking lot will be
graded towards a landscaped area to the east of the site.
Calculations need to be provided to show that the runoff
from the paving can be accommodated in the landscaped
area. The northern section of the landscaped area is
directly adjacent to a neighbouring property. How will the
runoff directed to the landscaped area not simply enter the
perimeter drain to this property or otherwise adversely
impact the property.
(v) There is no indication on the drawings as to the location of
the detention system. Where is this located? If it is located
beneath the on-site parking the applicant should consider
permeable pavers throughout the parking area and access
drive
Note to Applicant: Provision of on-site backflow prevention
is required for sanitary and storm service connections.
Note to Applicant: Development to be serviced to the
existing 200 mm sanitary sewer and 525 mm storm sewer
along East 19th Ave.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 20
Note to Project Coordinator: A complete tech table is
required showing the calculations for the minimum required
parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the number of spaces
being provided.
Affordable Housing
26. Submission of a draft operating budget and rent schedule
demonstrating a viable optimisation of affordability on this site with
a minimum of 30% of housing units in the building renting to
households with incomes below the BC Housing Income Limits or
such other greater percentage of housing units rented to such
households with a view of maximizing affordability while ensuring
the financial viability of the project, with a review of same prior to
issuance of an occupancy permit, all to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
27. Prior to issuance of the Development Permit, applicant to install
and display a sign on the site, throughout construction, that
acknowledges that social housing is being provided as part of the
City of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format and location to
be approved by the City.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the General Manager of
Community Services, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of
the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 529166M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
2. Provision of an easement agreement for the encroaching portions
of the house from the adjacent easterly lot (the North ½ of Lot B,
Block 54, District Lot 301, Plan 187).
3. Provision of a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure
the provision, operation and maintenance of one (1) Shared
Vehicle and the provision and maintenance of one (1) Shared
Vehicle Parking Space for use exclusively by such on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the General Manager of Engineering

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 21
Services and the Director of Legal Services, including the
following:
(i) Provide (1) Shared Vehicle to the development for a
minimum period of (3) years.
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicle.
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles.
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space.
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle unless otherwise agreed to by
the general manager of Engineering Services and the
Director of Legal Services; and
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the Director
of Legal Services may require and including a covenant
under section 219 of the Land Title Act of British Columbia,
a statutory right of way, or other instrument satisfactory to
the Director of Legal Services, securing these conditions.
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a car share
company indicating their willingness to supply car share
vehicles on the site at building occupancy. Provision of a
Services Agreement to detail the on and off-site works and
services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called “the services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City
and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the
site will be issued until the security for the services is
provided.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services is provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 22
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan
that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course Bylaw. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
(a) Retain or infiltrate 50% of the 6-month event
(24 mm);
(b) Treat the 6-month (48 mm) onsite; and
(c) Maintain the pre-development 2 year 24hr storm
event rate and volume. The pre-development
estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF curve, whereas
the post development estimate shall use the
2100 IDF curve to account for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required to
ensure on-going operations of certain stormwater storage,
rain water management and green infrastructure systems.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note: as-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the
installed number of conduits, their final locations and
depths.
(iv) Provision of street trees adjacent to the site where space
permits.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 23
(v) Provision of a 2.3 m (7’-6”) sod lawn front boulevard and a
light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk on
Fraser Street between the front boulevard and the property
line.
(vi) Provision of a 2.14 m (7’-0”) sod lawn front boulevard and
a light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk on
East 19th Avenue between the front boulevard and the
property line.
(vii) Removal of the existing driveway crossing on Fraser Street
and East 19th Avenue and provision of new curb and
gutter.
(viii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current LED standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(ix) Provision of intersection lighting upgrade to LED standards
(all four intersection poles are to receive upgraded
lighting).
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Affordable Housing
6. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successor in function)
and the Director of Legal Service to enter into a Housing
Agreement securing all dwelling units as social housing for 60
years or life of the building, whichever is greater, which will
contain the following terms and conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 24
(i) A no separate sales covenant.
(ii) A no stratification covenant.
(iii) A provision that none of the dwelling units in the building
will be rented for less than one month at a time.
(iv) Requiring such units to be used for "social housing", as
that term is defined in the Vancouver Development Cost
Levy By-law No. 9755.
(v) Requiring such units to be made available to seniors, as
defined within the Housing Agreement.
(vi) Including such other terms and conditions as the Director
of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services may require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted
pursuant to Section 595.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Soils
7. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 25
as personal covenants of the property owners, but also as
restricted charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate
Land Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as are considered
advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of
the by-law.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City
including indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, and letters of
credit, and provide for the withholding of permits, as deemed
appropriate by, and in the form and content satisfactory to, the
Director of Legal Services.
B. THAT the draft CD-1 By-law provisions (Floor Area and Density - section 4.4 (c))
in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018 entitled “3510 Fraser
Street” be amended as follows:
4.4 (c) where floors are used for off-street parking and loading, the taking
on or discharging of passengers, bicycle storage, heating and mechanical
equipment or uses which in the opinion of the Director of Planning are
similar to the foregoing, those floors or portions thereof so used which are
at or below the base surface, except that the Director of Planning may
also permit the exclusion of such floors or portions of floors that are
located above base surface, provided that the maximum exclusion for a
parking space shall not exceed 7.3 m in length.
C. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 3510 Fraser Street”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the applicant
and its mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such
terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
D. THAT, the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3510 Fraser Street”, be approved.
E. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendments to the
Parking By-law, generally set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 1, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3510 Fraser Street”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 26
F. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendments to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 1, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3510 Fraser Street”.
G. THAT A through F above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02959)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
5. REZONING: 855 Kingsway
An application by Cornerstone Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 855 Kingsway from C-2 (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a six-
storey mixed-use building with commercial uses at grade and 50 secured for-
profit affordable rental housing units. A height of 24.3 metres (79.7 feet) and a
floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.3 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
Twelve pieces of correspondence had been received since the application was referred to
Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 27
Rachel Selinger, Metro Vancouver Housing Strategist, Generation Squeeze, spoke in support of
the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:47 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Cornerstone Architecture on behalf of 1026651 B.C. Ltd.
to rezone 855 Kingsway [Lots 13 and 14 Block 90 District Lot 301 Plan 187;
PIDS: 004-994-281 and 004-994-183 respectively] from C-2 (Commercial)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 2.5 to 3.3 and the maximum building height from 13.8 m
(47.3 ft.) to 24.3 m (79.7 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey mixed use
building with commercial at grade and 50 secured for-profit affordable rental
housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
May 1, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 855 Kingsway”, be approved subject to the
following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by prepared by Cornerstone Architecture,
and stamped “Received City Planning Department on January 24, 2018”,
subject to the following conditions, provided that the Director of Planning
may allow minor alterations to this form of development when approving
the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce the apparent massing of the
building by setting back the upper 5th and 6th floor 6 ft. from the
primary face of the building off of Kingsway.
Note to Applicant: This upper massing setback is required to
better comply with the massing profile anticipated within the C-2
zoning and guidelines.
2. Design development to enhance the legibility of the residential
entry.
Note to Applicant: The main residential entry should be clearly
legible. Changes of material, lighting and architectural elements
can be used to enhance visibility of the entrance.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 28
3. Design development to ensure the amenity area is a flexible
functional area.
Note to Applicant: the column located in the center space limits its
use. Provide confirmation that there is direct access from the
indoor amenity area to the outdoor amenity area.
4. Design development to create visual interest to the two internal
side yard elevations.
Note to Applicant: this can be accomplished through variations in
the materials or texture.
5. Design development to ensure all storage areas meet the
requirements set out in the Bulk Storage and In-suite Storage
Administrative Bulletin.
http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/bulletin/b004.pdf
6. Provision of a vertical ventilation shaft that can exhaust air from
the ground floor Commercial retail units through the highest roof.
7. Submission of a bird friendly strategy for the design of the building
and landscape is encouraged in the application for a development
permit.
Note to Applicant: The strategy should identify any particular risks
with regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose
design features to reduce these risks. For more information, see
the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
8. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Sustainability
9. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7,
2017), including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions
Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero
emissions standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 29
Low Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low
Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Landscape Design
10. Design development to better articulate, provide more
opportunities for social interaction and expand the programming of
common outdoor amenity space on Level 1, as follows:
(i) Improve programming for the space between Children’s
Play area and indoor Amenity Room to be a more
meaningful space, without increasing surface paving.
(ii) Increase landscape buffer between Children’s Play area
and Loading.
(iii) Enable and provide a minimum 3 ft. wide landscape buffer
next to both east and west property lines.
(iv) Provide high quality, creative and natural materials in
landscaped areas, especially in the Children’s Play area.
(v) Provide additional passive seating areas such as benches
and seat walls.
11. Design development to improve sustainability, expand
programming and improve usability of rooftop outdoor Amenity
space by the addition of Urban Agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Urban agriculture plots should follow the City’s
Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and include
infrastructure required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc.
Garden plots should be wheelchair accessible.
12. Design development to improve sustainability by the provision of
an extensive green roof on the flat upper rooftop.
13. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 30
14. Provision of section details at a minimum scale of 1/2"=1'-0" scale
to illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and
trellises, and other features. Planter section details should show
dimensioned rootballs to confirm depth of proposed planting on
structures is deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed
trees well into the future. The depth should exceed BCSLA
standard and be minimum 3 ft. for trees and 2 ft. for shrubs.
15. Provision of a high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to for all
planted areas.
16. Provision of a Landscape Lighting Plan for security purposes.
Note to applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
17. Coordination of new proposed street trees with Engineering and
the Park Board, confirming quantities, species, sizes and
locations, and addition of the following note on the plans:
Final location, quantity, tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering. Contact Eileen Curran at 604-
871-6131 to confirm planting location. New tree must be of good
standard, minimum 6 cm calliper and installed with approved root
barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8
feet long and 18 inches deep. Planting depth of root ball must be
below sidewalk grade. New street trees to be confirmed prior to
issuance of the building permit. Call Cabot Lyford at Park Board at
311 for tree species selection and planting requirements. Park
Board to inspect and approve after tree planting completion.
Note to Applicant: The applicant must contact Park Board and
Engineering prior to final DP submission and ensure this
information is included on the Plant Schedule.
18. Provision of confirmed trenching locations for utility connections,
avoiding conflict with tree root zones and addition of the following
note:
“Trenching for utility connections to be coordinated with
Engineering Department to ensure safe root zones of retained
trees. Methods of tree protection for street trees to be approved by
Park Board”.
Note to Applicant: Methods of tree protection for street trees (as
approved by Park Board) to be shown on plan. Relocation of
trenching locations are required if in conflict with tree protection.
19. Provision on the landscape drawings of landscape features
intended to create a bird friendly design.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 31
Note to Applicant: Bird friendly plants should be included on the
plant palette, enabling bird habitat conservation and bird habitat
promotion. Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a
design rationale for the features noted. For more information, see
the guidelines at:
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.)
20. Provision of the following to ensure complete information:
(i) Plans to be at a correct, known scale (not reduced) and to
match architectural scale;
(ii) Details to be referenced on plans;
(iii) Complete coordination, notations and references;
(iv) Complete schedules for hard and soft materials (the use of
artificial turf will not be supported on any surfaces); and
(v) Improved graphic readability by deleting grey tones or
submit plans in colour.
Engineering Services
21. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver
Parking By-Law.
22. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time is required for any major crane erection /
removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
that already identified in the project street use permissions.
23. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
24. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 32
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
25. Provision of an updated Site Plan and Landscape drawings
showing and noting the SRW line on Kingsway.
26. Provision of Class B bike parking on private property as per the
By-law.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure Site Plan and landscape
drawings illustrate all Class B bike parking requirements to ensure
all racks are installed on private property and bicycles secured to
rack do not encroach onto public property.
27. Provision of an updated plan showing the access route for the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
28. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle rooms.
29. Design development to improve the parkade layout and access
design and compliance with the Parking and Loading Design
Supplement, and Bicycle Parking Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as
follows:
(i) Clarify if hatching and a handrail is required on the main
ramp for pedestrian egress.
Note to Applicant: The ramp may need to be widened to
maintain a 20 ft. drive aisle width.
(ii) Provision of a reduced slope and cross-fall at the bottom of
the main ramp.
Note to Applicant: this is to reduce the overall combined
cross slope of approximately 7%. Refer to section drawing
A4.5 to confirm if the elevations at the south wall of the
parkade can be raised while still maintaining the required
vertical clearance for disability parking.
(iii) Provision of measures to address conflicts between
vehicles at the bottom of the ramp.
Note to Applicant: Engineering recommends improving
visibility through provision of view portals in the parkade

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 33
ramp wall and installation of a parabolic mirror at the
bottom of the ramp.
(iv) Provision of a section drawing through residential small car
stall 13 with overhead projections and vertical clearances
under projections dimensioned on the drawings.
(v) Provision of 8 ft. 6 in. stall width between the wall and the
column for single module parking stall Visitor 3.
Note to Applicant: column encroachments are not
permitted in single module stalls.
Affordable Housing
30. That the proposed unit mix, 16% 2-bedroom units and 20%
3-bedroom units be included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be suitable for
families with children.
31. The building is to comply with the High Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity
room with kitchenette and accessible washroom.
Note to Applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas
should be adjacent to one another and have direct visual and
physical connection between them.
32. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
for-profit affordable rental housing is being provided as part of the
City of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and location to
be approved by the City.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 13 and 14, Block 90, DL 3016, Plan 187 to
create a single parcel.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 34
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 330533M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) on Kingsway adjacent the site to achieve a
5.5 m (18 ‘0”) sidewalk from the back of the existing City curb to
the building face. A legal survey of the existing dimension from the
back of the City curb is required to determine the final
setback/SRW dimension. The SRW will be free of any
encumbrance at grade such as structure, stairs, door swing,
landscape and bicycle parking but must accommodate portions of
structure on Level P1 and Levels 2 to 6 within the SRW
agreement.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until security for
the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical
services to the site must be primary with all electrical plant,
which include but not limited to System Vista, Vista
switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks
(including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on
private property with no reliance on public property for
placement of these features.
(iii) In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage
from the existing overhead electrical network on the street

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 35
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation
with B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical
plant. Please confirm that this space has been allocated
and agreement between both parties has been met.
(iv) Provision of new CIP light broom finish concrete sidewalk
with saw cut joints on Kingsway adjacent the site between
the front boulevard and the property line and new 1.2M
exposed aggregate utility strip at the curb with 4 piece
standard tree surrounds where they can be
accommodated.
(v) Upgraded street lighting on Kingsway adjacent the site to
current LED standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required
Affordable Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successor in function)
and the Director of Legal Services to enter into a Housing
Agreement securing all residential units as for-profit affordable
rental housing units pursuant to Section 3.1A of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law for the longer of 60 years or the
life of the building, and subject to the following additional
conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial
monthly rents for each rental unit, when the Housing
Agreement is entered into and again prior to development
permit issuance;
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each unit
type will be at or below the following proposed starting
rents subject to adjustment as contemplated by Section
3.1B(c) of the Vancouver Development Cost Levy-By-law:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 36
855 Kingsway
Unit Type
Average Starting Rents
Studio units $1,385
1-bedroom $1,638
2-bedroom $2,459
3-bedroom $3,109
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager
of Arts Culture and Community Services (or successor in
function) and the Director of Legal Services, that reflects
the agreed initial monthly rents as of occupancy in order to
address potential changes in unit mix and/or sizes
between the rezoning and development permit issuance,
and to allow for the rents to be increased annually from the
time of the public hearing to initial occupancy, as per the
maximum increases authorized by Section 3.1B(c) of the
Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law.
(vii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts Culture and Community Services (or successor in
function) and the Director of Legal Services may in their
sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Section 219 Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be
entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 37
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registered
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as are considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-law.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, and letters of credit, and
provide for the withholding of permits, as deemed appropriate by, and in
the form and content satisfactory to, the Director of Legal Services.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 855 Kingsway”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the applicant
and its mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by
this report, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT, the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018,
entitled “CD -1 Rezoning: 855 Kingsway”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 1, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 855 Kingsway”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and the
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 38
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02960)
6. REZONING: 1506 West 68th Avenue and 8405-8465 Granville Street
An application by IBI Group was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1506 West 68th Avenue and 8405-8465 Granville Street from C-2
and C-2C (Commercial) Districts to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to permit the development of a 10-storey mixed-use building,
containing 45 market residential dwelling units on floors three to ten, all over
commercial uses at grade and office on the second floor. A height of 41.5 m
(136 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.60 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Thien Phan, Rezoning Planner, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the
application and responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
Three pieces of correspondence opposed to the application had been received since the
application was referred to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt
of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:59 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 39
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by IBI Group, on behalf of Wangzhang Homes Ltd., the
registered owner, to rezone 1506 West 68th Avenue and 8405-8465 Granville
Street [Lots 5 and 6, Both Except the East 10 Feet, Now Road, and Lot A, Except
Part in Explanatory Plan 16296, all of Block 5, District Lot 325, Plan 4061; and
Lots 1 and 2, Both Except the East 10 Feet, Now Road, of Lot 21, Block 7,
District Lot 325, Plan 6768; PIDS: 009-496-696, 009-496-726, 011-970-804,
010-818-367, and 010-818-464, respectively] from C-2 and C-2C (Commercial)
Districts to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development), to a floor space ratio (FSR) of
3.60 and height of 41.5 m (136 ft.) to permit the development of a ten-storey
mixed-use building, containing ground floor commercial, second floor office, and
45 market residential units on floors three to ten, all above three levels of
underground parking, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated January 18, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1506 West 68th Avenue and
8405-8465 Granville Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by IBI Group., on behalf of Wangzhang
Homes Ltd., the registered owner, and Westland Corp., and stamped
“Received Planning & Development Services (Rezoning Centre),
October 3, 2017”, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application of by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to mitigate privacy and overlook towards
western single family neighbours.
Note to Applicant: This can be accomplished by further
development of landscape drawings, enlarged sections, and other
drawings to illustrate specific built features such as translucent
guards on balconies that face other residential properties, taller
plantings or similar features.
2. Consideration to provide bird friendly strategy for the design of the
building with development permit application.
Note to Applicant: Strategy should identify any particular risks with
regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose design
features to reduce these risks

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 40
(http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmentB
.pdf).
3. Design development to reduce balcony area to the maximum 12%
FSR exclusion.
Note to Applicant: Ensure all dwelling units continue to contain
one private outdoor balcony.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
4. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
5. Design development to enhance presentation to the lane at grade
along north property line by adding a substantial planted buffer in
the lane setback, consisting of evergreen, woody shrubs.
6. Design development to ensure visual access between the Level 3
indoor amenity room and outdoor children’s play area, for parental
supervision.
Note to Applicant: The planting in front of the window should
consist of lower plants which will not block views.
7. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
8. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted.
The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials
(with common and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities),
paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other
landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List
that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan
should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should match the
architectural site plan.
9. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2"=1'-0" scale to illustrate
typical proposed landscape elements including planters on
structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details should show dimensioned

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 41
rootballs to confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well
into the future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standard.
10. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for all
planted areas.
11. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
12. Provision of improved graphic readability by deleting grey tones to
ensure the plan reads well in black and white, or submit plans in
colour only.
Sustainability
13. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For phased developments,
it is expected that the individual development permits will meet the
requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings in effect
at the time of development permit application. For more detail on
the above requirements and what must be submitted at each
stage, refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017,
or later).
Engineering
14. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(eg, consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
15. A review of the existing street tree locations adjacent the site and
scale/size of tree to determine a construction methodology that

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 42
will ensure the protection of the trees and tree canopies during the
construction period and post occupancy.
16. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
17. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
18. Delete additional street tree proposed on Granville Street at the
corner of 68th Avenue. The existing tree barely clears the rear of
an articulated bus, and any additional trees planted between it and
the bus ID may interfere with operator sightlines, as well as bus
door clearances.
19. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
20. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to engineering for
review.
21. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over
public property. Note canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the drip
line is achieving maximum and continuous weather protection for
the sidewalk users.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 43
22. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on drawings.
23. Provision of a plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: the route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
24. Design Development to remove the door swing infringing into the
parkade on drawing A1.04 near gridline 3.
25. Provision of Class B bicycle parking on private property as per the
Parking By-law.
26. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Dimension all parking and loading spaces.
(ii) Dimension overall distance of parking spaces located
adjacent to walls to confirm that the additional width is
provided.
(iii) Provision of a section drawing showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and
through the loading bay.
(iv) Provision of additional dimensions on the section drawings
showing vertical clearance within the parking levels.
Ensure adequate vertical clearance is provided for utilities
and other services.
(v) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, and
at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: Where there is a curved ramp, provide
grades two feet from the wall on the inside radius. The
slope and length of the ramp sections must be shown on
the submitted drawings.
(vi) Additional design elevations are required to confirm the
slope and crossfall within the parking levels do not exceed
the requirements. Slope and crossfall to be shown on the
drawings.
(vii) A 1.5 m access corridor for all disability spaces is required
and must be noted on the drawings.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 44
(viii) Provision of additional information showing the overhead
security gate separating the residential parking spaces
from the commercial parking spaces. Provide dimensions
for the gate.
Note to Applicant: A man door is currently not shown.
Confirm if a man door is required to be provided and show
the man door on drawings if required.
(ix) 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for access and
maneuvering to all disability spaces and must be noted on
the drawings.
(x) Modify the bicycle parking to meet bylaw and design
supplement requirements.
(xi) Bicycle room(s) must not contain more than 40 bicycle
spaces except where the additional bicycle spaces are
comprised of lockers.
(xii) Design development to improve the relationship between
all users of bike room(s).
Note to Applicant: Separate bike rooms are required for
commercial and residential uses. End of trip facilities to be
accessible to commercial users without relying on
residential bike area for access.
(xiii) Provision of Class B loading spaces to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services. Design
Development to meet the requirements of the Parking and
Loading Design Supplement.
(xiv) Provision of stair-free internal access from the Class B
loading space(s) to the CRUs.
(xv) Provision of additional dimensions on the section drawings
showing vertical clearance within the parking levels.
Housing
27. The proposed unit mix, 26 two-bedroom (58%) and eight
three-bedroom (18%) units, is to be included in the Development
Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 25% two-bedroom and 10% three-bedroom units.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 45
28. The development is to comply with the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a kitchenette and
accessible washroom in the indoor common amenity room.
Note to Applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas
should be adjacent to one another and have direct visual and
physical connection between them.
29. Provision of the completed Tenant Relocation Application Form
which includes a list outlining the name of each tenant, the
number of the tenant’s unit, the size of unit, the type of unit, and
their rent, as per Section 6.1(a) of the Tenant Relocation and
Protection Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted
with your development permit application.
30. Provision of a Tenant Relocation Plan as per Section 2.1 of the
Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy.
31. Provision of a letter stating the property address and legal
description of the site, and providing the names and mailing
addresses of all tenants.
32. Provision of a notarized declaration to be submitted prior to
issuance of a development permit which demonstrates that each
tenant has been given written notice of the intent to redevelop the
property; that indicates the number of units occupied on the date
of the notice; includes information on posting of notice regarding
the intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and includes copies
of a letter addressed to each tenant summarizing the Tenant
Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each tenant.
33. Provision of a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior
to issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the names of
tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for alternate
accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value given to
each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other compensation); and
includes a summary of all communication provided to the tenants.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 46
Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services for the following:
1. Consolidation of Lots 5 and 6, Both Except the East 10 Feet, Now
Road, and Lot A, Except Part in Explanatory Plan 16296, all of
Block 5, District Lot 325, Plan 4061; and Lots 1 and 2, Both
Except the East 10 Feet, Now Road, of Lot 21, Block 7, District
Lot 325, Plan 6768 to create a single parcel.
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement BV474015-19
(current building encroachments onto City street) prior to building
occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a building setback and surface Statutory Right-of-Way
(SRW) for public pedestrian use over a portion of the site,
adjacent to Granville Street and 68th Avenue, to achieve a 5.5 m
offset distance from the back of the existing curb to the desired
5.5 m dimension. A survey plan prepared by a British Columbia
Land Surveyor showing the existing dimension from the back of
the City curb to the existing property line to determine the final
setback and SRW width is required. The SRW will be free of any
encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door swing and plantings
at grade and is to accommodate the existing underground parking
structure within the SRW agreement.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 47
(ii) Provision of a $550,000 cash payment towards future
sewer upgrades adjacent to the site.
(iii) Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical
services to the site must be primary with all electrical plant,
which include but not limited to System Vista, Vista
switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks
(including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on
private property with no reliance on public property for
placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage
from the existing overhead electrical network on the street
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation
with BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical
plant. Please confirm that this space has been allocated
and agreement between both parties has been met.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(v) Provision of a new 1.53 m (5 ft.) exposed aggregate front
boulevard and a light broom finish saw cut concrete
sidewalk between the front boulevard and the building face
adjacent to the site on Granville Street including standard
curb ramps.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 48
(vi) Provision of a 1.83 m (6 ft.) sod grass front boulevard and
a light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk between the
front boulevard and the building face adjacent to the site
on 68th Avenue.
(vii) Provision of upgraded street lighting and pedestrian
lighting on Granville Street adjacent to the site to current
standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(viii) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing on the
south side of 68th Avenue at the lane west of Granville
Street including new curb returns and ramps on both sides
of the lane entry.
(ix) Provision of a new catch basin and sewer line extension in
the lane west of Granville Street near the south end of the
site to ensure lane runoff does not enter the parkade.
(x) Signal modifications at Granville Street and 68th Avenue to
including LED lighting (new LED lights on each pole at all
four corners of the intersection), countdown timers, and an
accessible pedestrian signal.
Green Infrastructure
5. Provision of a detailed response toward the Integrated Rainwater
Management (IRMP) requirements outlined in the Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings, and the following:
(i) As the project moves to detailed design, provide a
Rainwater Management Plan (RMP) that details how the
rainwater management system meets the Citywide
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP)
requirements for retention, cleaning and safe conveyance,
prepared by a subject matter expert (Engineer), subject to
review. The proponent should take into account the
following:
a. In this instance of a zero lot line design staff will
consider:
i. The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
retention volume for runoff reduction instead of
infiltration volume;
ii. Retention can be achieved through rainwater
reuse, in green roofs and planter boxes, or slow
release detention such as lined permeable
pavement systems.
iii. The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as
a water quality volume to be treated;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 49
b. Staff do not accept the principle that distinct site
areas that have large infiltration and/or storage
capacity in some way compensate for those areas
of the site that are impervious, without the first and
second 24mm of runoff being directed towards
these absorbent areas, and this being clearly
demonstrated. The subsequent safe conveyance of
rainfall surpassing 48mm in 24 hours will also need
to be demonstrated;
c. Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed
from impermeable surfaces into planted or other
storage/treatment areas;
d. Provide outline area/volume calculations to support
the overall rainwater management strategy;
e. Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will
be considered as rainwater retention/runoff
reduction and water quality practices;
i. Planters designed as flow-through planters can
be used to meet the treatment volume
requirement.
ii. Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout
planted areas and shallow ponding depths
within the planted areas as part of the
calculations.
f. The building/public realm should be designed to
show leadership in the City’s commitment to Green
Building systems including an integrative approach
to rainwater management to minimize potable
water use and encourage the use of alternative
water sources in areas such as toilet flushing and
irrigation;
Note to Applicant: Legal agreements may be
required to ensure on-going operations of certain
stormwater storage, rainwater management and
green infrastructure systems.
Sustainability
6. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 50
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Environmental Contamination
7. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Services
Department;
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, City Engineer and Director of
Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
8. Pay to the City the Community Amenity Contribution of
$2,300,000 which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is
to be made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to
the City and in a form and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Director of Legal Services. The $2,300,000 is to be allocated
as follows:
(i) $1,150,000 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Marpole area.
(ii) $1,035,000 (45%) towards childcare and community
facilities in and around the Marpole area; and
(iii) $115,000 (5%) to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to
enable heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 51
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by the
Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no cost
to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
January 18, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1506 West 68th Avenue and 8405-
8465 Granville Street”, be approved.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02961)
7. REZONING: 4459 Rupert Street
An application by Lang Wilson Practice in Architecture Culture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 4459 Rupert Street from C-1 (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development ) District, to permit the development of a

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 52
four-storey mixed-use building with commercial-retail at grade, and
12 secured for-profit affordable rental housing units on the upper floors. A
height of 15.0 metres (49 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.6 are
proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Simon Jay, Rezoning Planner, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Cynthia Wilson, Principal and Co-Founder, Lang Wilson Practice in Architecture Culture,
provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to
Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 16 pieces of correspondence in support; and
 5 pieces of correspondence opposed.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Craig Jorgensen spoke in support of the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:15 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT the application by Lang Wilson Practice in Architecture Culture Inc., on
behalf of Rejoyce Investment Corp., to rezone 4459 Rupert Street [Lot 3 Except
the West 8 feet now Lane Block 4 South East 1/4 of Section 49 Town of Hastings
Suburban Lands Plan 1705; PID: 006-139-515] from C-1 (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio
from 1.2 to 2.6 and the building height from 10.7 m (35.1 ft.) to 15 m (49.18 ft.), to
permit the development of a four-storey mixed use building with commercial at
grade and 12 secured for-profit affordable rental housing units, generally as

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 53
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 4459 Rupert Street”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Lang Wilson Practice in Architecture
Culture Inc and stamped “Received City Planning Department,
June 2, 2017”, subject to the following conditions, provided that the
Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Consideration for design development to reduce the height and
mass of the stair shaft as it appears above the roof line as much
as possible.
2. Submission of a bird friendly strategy for the design of the building
is encouraged in the application for a development permit.
Note to Applicant: The strategy should identify any particular risks
with regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose
design features or to reduce these risks. For more information,
see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
3. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Affordable Housing
4. That the proposed unit mix, 50% 2-bedroom units be included in
the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 54
go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be suitable for
families with children.
5. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
secured for-profit affordable rental housing is being provided as
part of the City of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and
location to be approved by the City.
Engineering
6. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver
Parking By-Law.
Note to Applicant: Consider providing additional parking spaces at
grade to achieve the minimum required parking on site. Contact
the Parking Management Branch for more information.
7. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction (i.e.
consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent private
property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days
lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab pour that
requires additional street use beyond the already identified project
street use permissions.
8. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
9. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
10. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over
public property. Note canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the drip

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 55
line is achieving maximum and continuous weather protection for
the sidewalk users.
11. Provision of separated garbage storage for residential and
commercial uses.
12. Delete special sidewalk treatments from public property and show
standard broomed finishes.
13. Provision of the following statement on the landscape plan; This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
14. Update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public realm
changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for this
rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please make
note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to engineering for
review.
15. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
16. Design development to improve the elevator size and access for
the Class A bicycle spaces provided in the basement.
Note to Applicant: As the Class A bicycle spaces are required to
use the elevator, a larger elevator with double doors and widened
elevator entrance is required. The elevator is to be a freight style
elevator to comfortably accommodate two people with two
bicycles and provide minimum interior dimensions of 5’-6” x 6’-8”.
Consider durable finishes in the elevator and the hallways
required for bicycle access.
17. All Class B bike parking to be provided on private property and
should not encroach in any way on public property. Consider
providing a single u-rack on private property.
18. Design development to comply with the Parking and Loading
Design Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services (GMES). The following items are required:
(i) Remove bollard located within the disability stall;
(ii) Provision of design elevations within the parking and
loading areas to calculate the slope and crossfall;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 56
(iii) Provision of an improved plan showing the pole location
within the lane to confirm that the pole does not obstruct
access to the parking stall;
Note to Applicant: Note the minimum vertical clearance on
all section drawings. 2.3m of vertical clearance is required
for access and maneuvering to all disability spaces.
(iv) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the elevator. This is required for
documentation purposes.”
Sustainability
19. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017,
or later).
Landscape Design
20. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters to ensure long term viability of the
landscape, by ensuring planting depth exceeds BCSLA standards
(not including drainage layer).
Note to Applicant: Current plans do not exceed the standard
planting depths and should be revised accordingly.
21. Provision of section details at a minimum scale of 1/4"=1'-0" scale
to illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and
trellises, and other features.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 57
Note to Applicant: Planter section details must confirm with
dimensions the depth of proposed planting on structures is deep
enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the
future, at a depth that exceeds BCSLA standard (Refer to
condition 20).
22. Coordination of new proposed street trees with Engineering and
the Park Board, confirming quantities, species, sizes and
locations, and addition of the following note on the plans:
Final location, quantity, tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering. Contact Eileen Curran at
604-871-6131 to confirm planting location. New tree must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm calliper and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall
be 8 feet long and 18 inches deep. Planting depth of root ball must
be below sidewalk grade. New street trees to be confirmed prior to
issuance of the building permit. Call Cabot Lyford at Park Board at
311 for tree species selection and planting requirements. Park
Board to inspect and approve after tree planting completion.
Note to Applicant: The applicant must contact Park Board and
Engineering prior to final DP submission and ensure this
information is included on the Plant Schedule.
23. Provision of a high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be
provided for all planters.
24. Provision of confirmed trenching locations for utility connections,
avoiding conflict with tree root zones and addition of the following
note:
“Trenching for utility connections to be coordinated with
Engineering Department to ensure safe root zones of retained
trees. Methods of tree protection for street trees to be approved by
Park Board”.
Note to Applicant: Methods of tree protection for street trees (as
approved by Park Board) to be shown on plan. Relocation of
trenching locations are required if in conflict with tree protection.
25. Provision on the landscape drawings of landscape features
intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Bird friendly plants should be included on the
plant palette, enabling bird habitat conservation and bird habitat
promotion. Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a
design rationale for the features noted. For more information, see
the guidelines at:
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 58
26. Provision of the following for complete information:
(i) Plans to be at a correct, known scale (not reduced) and to
match architectural scale;
(ii) Details to be referenced on plans; and
(iii) Improved graphic readability by deleting grey tones or
submit plans in colour.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successors in function), as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Release of Indemnity Agreement 23865M (support agreement)
prior to building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
issuance of the development permit, with release to occur prior to
issuance of an occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter
of commitment will satisfactorily address this condition at the DP
stage.
2. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory Right of
Way (SRW) on Rupert Street to achieve a 4.5 m (14’- 9”) sidewalk
from the back of the existing City curb to the building face. A legal
survey of the existing dimension from the back of the City curb is
required to determine the final setback/SRW dimension. The SRW
will be free of any encumbrances such as structures, stairs, door
swings, chairs and tables, landscaping and bicycle parking. The
SRW agreement will accommodate portions of the basement level
and levels 2 & 3 within the SRW area.
3. Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure the
provision, operation and maintenance of 1 Shared Vehicle and the
provision and maintenance of 1 Shared Vehicle Parking Space for
use exclusively by such Shared Vehicle, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the General Manager of Engineering Services and
the Director of Legal Services, including the following:
(i) Provide 1 Shared Vehicle to the development for a
minimum period of 3 years;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 59
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicle;
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space
for use exclusively by such shared vehicle;
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space;
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle;
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the Director
of Legal Services may require and including a covenant
under section 219 of the Land Title Act of British Columbia,
a statutory right of way, or other instrument satisfactory to
the Director of Legal Services, securing these conditions;
and
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a car share
company indicating their willingness to supply car share
vehicles on the site at building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Shared vehicle spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9m.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until security for
the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 60
(ii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent the site to
LED standard.
(iii) Provision of CIP light broom finish saw cut concrete
sidewalk on the site frontage between the existing front
boulevard and the property line. Note that as adjacent
properties redevelop the front boulevard and sidewalk
alignment will be adjusted to deliver a consistent front
boulevard width and treatment with grass and trees.
(iv) Provision of signal modifications at the intersection of
Rupert & 29th, including countdown timers and LED
lighting.
(v) Provision of a restoration bond to secure any repair to the
macadam lane adjacent the site to pre-construction
condition should construction activities inflict significant
damage to the lane surface. Restoration is at the full
discretion of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
6. Submission of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that
meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Water
Course Bylaw. The plan shall achieve the following objectives:
(i) Retain or infiltration the 6-month storm event volume
(24 mm) onsite;
(ii) Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 61
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 5 year storm event rate; and
(iv) The predevelopment estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curve, whereas the post development estimate shall use
the 2100 IDF curve to account for climate change.
Affordable Housing
7. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement securing all
residential units as for-profit affordable rental housing units
pursuant to Section 3.1A of the Vancouver Development Cost
Levy By-law for the longer of 60 years or the life of the building,
subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial
monthly rents for each rental unit when the Housing
Agreement is entered into, and again prior to development
permit issuance;
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each unit
type will be at or below the following proposed starting
rents subject to adjustment as contemplated by the
Vancouver Development Cost Levy-By-law;
Unit Type 4459 Rupert St - Proposed
Average Starting Rents
1-bedroom $1,642
2-bedroom $2,333
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services, that reflects the agreed initial monthly
rents as of occupancy in order to address potential
changes in unit mix and/or sizes between the rezoning and
development permit issuance, and to allow for the rents to
be increased annually from the time of the public hearing
to initial occupancy, as per the maximum increases

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 62
authorized by the Vancouver Development Cost Levy
By-law; and
(vii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Section 219
Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City
by by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver
Charter.
Environmental Contamination
8. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registered
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as are considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-law.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 63
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, and letters of credit, and
provide for the withholding of permits, as deemed appropriate by, and in
the form and content satisfactory to, the Director of Legal Services.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4459 Rupert Street”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the applicant
and its mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by
this report, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT, the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4459 Rupert Street”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the Noise Control By-law,
generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4459 Rupert Street”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02962)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 64
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 9:17 pm.
* * * * *
The foregoing are Minutes of the Public Hearing of June 5, 2018, adopted by Council on
June 19, 2018.
___________________________
MAYOR
___________________________
CITY CLERK