REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 5, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 5, 2018,
at 9:36 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed
by the city;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 2
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
Regular Council – May 15, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of May 15, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
2. Public Hearing – May 15, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of May 15, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
3. Public Hearing – May 22, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of May 22, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 3
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council adopt Communication 1, Administrative Report 1 and Policy Reports
2 to 4, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Emergency Management Update
Daniel Stevens, Director, Emergency Management, provided an update on Emergency
Management, including the next generation radio system, exercise planning, post-earthquake
bridge inspection plan, public alerting, and volunteer and staff deployment during the 2017
wildfires.
Mr. Stevens responded to questions.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
STANDING COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council resolve into the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities,
Councillor Reimer in the Chair, to consider Unfinished Business from the meeting on
May 16, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02933)
1. Additional Requirements to the City of Vancouver Medical-Marijuana Related
Businesses Licensing Process to Deter Organized Crime
Note: the Minutes from the first portion of this item can be found on pages 13 to 16 at the
following link - http://council.vancouver.ca/20180516/documents/pspc20180516min.pdf
The Committee continued to debate the motion.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 4
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 10:29 am and reconvened at 10:43 am.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT under Section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law the Committee suspend Section 11.1
of the Procedure By-law for the purpose of allowing Councillor Ball additional speaking
time for this item.
CARRIED AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Jang opposed)
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on the components of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The Federal Government has not yet finalized a legal framework for marijuana in
Canada and the federal government has delayed the announcement of the final
legal framework that was to be released on July 1, 2018;
2. June 2015, Council passed TEXT AMENDMENT: Regulation of Retail Dealers
Medical Marijuana-Related Uses;
3. The text amendment to the zoning by-law to allow Marijuana related businesses
may have to be changed when federal and provincial regulations are announced;
4. The only legal avenue for an individual to obtain medical marijuana is to receive
a prescription from a doctor with an exact dosage, register with a licensed
producer (approved by Health Canada), place an order online or via phone and
have it delivered directly to the person the cannabis was prescribed for;
5. The majority, if not all, retail stores licensed by the City of Vancouver MMRU, as
well as those open without a license, do not obtain their supply from Licensed
Producers regulated by Health Canada;
6. Currently, the City requires applicants for Marijuana-Related businesses to meet
many requirements, including locations that are at least 300 meters from schools,
community centres, neighbourhood houses, youth facilities that serve vulnerable
youth and other marijuana-related businesses;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 5
7. The City of Vancouver website states that regulations aim to achieve a careful
balance between ensuring community health, safety, security aesthetics, equity
and enjoyment of property;
8. Currently police information checks are required for the applicant and all staff
(including directors and health professionals); however there is no requirement
for the applicant to conduct police information checks for suppliers and/or
growers;
9. There is currently no requirement in the City of Vancouver application or license
process for marijuana-related businesses that requires the business or
compassion club to be supplied with cannabis by only licensed producers,
approved by Health Canada;
10. Zoning and Development by-law requirements for Marijuana-Related Businesses
listed on the City of Vancouver website do not require either medical
marijuana-related retail dealers or compassion clubs to produce financial
statements for their business and the financial statements for their suppliers;
11. Marijuana-Related businesses must provide proof of lease or ownership of the
address they are applying to license as a Marijuana-Related business;
12. There have been at least eight robberies of Marijuana-Related businesses in the
city of Vancouver;
13. Organized crime and gangs are known to participate in the sale of illegal drugs
and substances, including marijuana;
14. Allowing organized crime and/or gangs to participate in business in the City of
Vancouver could put public safety at risk, and could put strain on police
resources;
15. The City of Vancouver requires financial statements from organizations and
companies applying for several grants including but not limited to: Cultural
Infrastructure Grants, Public Art Community Grants, Childcare Enhancement
Grants, Community Arts Grants;
16. The Vancouver Police Department has a strong commitment to public safety and
have previously demonstrated they will not tolerate any activities related to
organized crime and gang violence;
17. City of Vancouver policy, zoning, licensing and by-laws that allow access to drug
traffickers, supplying controlled substances illegally could contribute to the
economic success of organized crime groups and/or gangs;
18. The City of Vancouver’s Deputy Chief License Inspector has previously made
decisions to revoke business licenses for reasons including criminal matters.
Council has previously upheld these decisions when brought forward as appeals,
pursuant to Section 275 of the Vancouver Charter that allows Council

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 6
discretionary powers to uphold or overturn the decision of the Deputy Chief
License Inspector.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to change the requirements necessary for a
Marijuana-Related Business to include annual audited financial statements that
are resubmitted and self-reported on an annual basis.
B. THAT Council require all marijuana-related businesses licensed by the City of
Vancouver to obtain marijuana only from Licensed Producers approved by
Health Canada.
C. THAT Council direct staff to work with the Vancouver Police Department and
particularly the Major Crime Section, to ensure that all City of Vancouver
Marijuana-Related Business applications and License requirements are
recommended with attention to deterring major crime that is directly or indirectly
related to any business where an illegal and controlled substance is sold.
D. THAT Council direct staff to share any information found on the correlation
between Marijuana Growers and Suppliers; and organized crime and gangs with
senior levels of government, as they continue to prepare a legal framework for
marijuana in Canada;
FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council by July 2018 with any findings and
recommendations to strengthen requirements in licensing marijuana related
businesses in the interest of public safety.
LOST
(Councillors Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed to
A (Vote No. 02919), B (Vote No. 02920), C (Vote No. 02921), and D (Vote No. 02922),
Councillors Affleck and Bremner opposed to A and B, and Councillor Carr opposed to A, B and
C)
* * * * *
The Committee adjourned at 10:56 am.
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 7
* * * * *
Council reconvened at 10:57 am.
* * * * *
2. Report of the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities – May 16 and
June 5, 2018 – Approval of Recommendations and Actions
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
May 16 and June 5, 2018
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Transportation
2. Greenest City
3. Presentation – 2019-2022 Draft Capital Plan
4. Contract Award for ITT PS20172554 Phase 3 NE Closure and Phase 4 LFG System
Expansion – Vancouver Landfill
5. False Creek South Planning: Provisional Vision Statement and Guiding Planning
Principles
6. Theatre Rental Grant Allocations – Fall 2018 and Spring 2019
7. 2018 Cultural Grant Allocations (Infrastructure, Community Arts, Arts Capacity, Host
Your Own Engagement)
8. Additional Requirements to the City of Vancouver Medical-Marijuana Related
Businesses Licensing Process to Deter Organized Crime
Items 1 to 8
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of May 16 and June 5, 2018, as contained in items
1 to 8, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND ITEMS 6 AND 7
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02936)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 8
COMMUNICATIONS
1. 2018 Council Meeting Schedule Revision
THAT Council approve using the July 18, 2018, Council Reserve meeting date and time
as set out in the 2018 Council Meetings Schedule, for a Public Hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02937)
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. 2018 Animal Welfare Grants
May 17, 2018
THAT Council approve four Animal Welfare Grants totalling $11,472, as outlined in the
Financial Implications section of the Administrative Report dated May 17, 2018, entitled
“2018 Animal Welfare Grants”.
Source of the funds will be the 2018 Animal Welfare Grants Budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02939)
2. Draft 2019-2022 Capital Plan
May 22, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
A. THAT Council receive the draft 2019-2022 Capital Plan (Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “Draft 2019-2022 Capital
Plan”) for information, and direct the Director of Finance to seek public input as
outlined in the Public Engagement section of the above-noted report.
B. THAT Council approve in principle a borrowing limit totalling $495 million
supported by property tax and utility fees in the draft 2019-2022 Capital Plan:
• Plebiscite-approved General Borrowing Authority - $300 million;
• Council-approved Borrowing Authority for Sewer and Neighborhood
Energy Utilities - $195 million;
FURTHER THAT the above borrowing limit guides the next phase of capital
planning work and be subject to approval by Council as part of the final
2019-2022 Capital Plan in July 2018.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 9
C. THAT the Director of Finance report back with the final 2019-2022 Capital Plan,
incorporating results of the public engagement and plebiscite borrowing
questions, for Council’s consideration in July 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02923)
POLICY REPORTS
1. Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design
Guidelines and Policies
March 23, 2018
Various Council members requested a yellow memo be included with the Public Hearing
package for this item with information on the original 2012 plan, metrics that are being
monitored, work done in 2016, pre-existing conditions, aspirational goals, and context.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule
of the Zoning and Development By-law, generally to introduce:
(i) maximum net Floor Space Ratio;
(ii) maximum building heights in floors within the current maximum height in
metres;
(iii) requirements to provide non-residential uses;
(iv) provisions for retail mezzanine and laneway retail spaces;
(v) maximum widths for development sites (i.e. site frontage); and
(vi) maximum widths for storefronts.
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a public hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown
HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”, for
consideration at public hearing.
B. THAT, at the time of any enactment of the proposed amendments to the HA-1
and HA-1A Districts Schedule, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council approval
consequential amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 Design Guidelines and the
Chinatown HA 1A Design Guidelines, generally as set out in Appendix B of the
Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown
HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 10
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the proposed amendments to the HA-1 and
HA-1A Districts Schedules, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval consequential amendments to the Parking By-law
generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and HA-1A
Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
D. THAT Council revoke the Rezoning Policy for Chinatown South (HA-1A) and that
the General Manager of Planning, Urban and Sustainability be instructed to not
consider any further applications under this policy except for the application
which has been received and is under review for 728-798 Main Street.
FURTHER THAT Council revise the Rezoning Policy for the Downtown Eastside
and the Downtown Eastside Plan in order to remove certain references to
rezoning in Chinatown, generally in accordance with Appendices D and E of the
Policy Report dated March 23, 2018, entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown
HA-1 and HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”.
AND FURTHER THAT B, C and D above also be referred to a public hearing.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
carried (Vote No. 02925)
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
THAT Council refer the Policy Report entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and
HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”, back to staff and direct staff
to conduct an economic impact study and report back to Council with the results of this
study by September 2018.
LOST (Vote No. 02924)
(Councillors Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
A Point of Order was called on the Referral below prior to receiving a seconder.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 11
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer the Policy Report entitled “Amendments to the Chinatown HA-1 and
HA-1A Districts Schedule, Design Guidelines and Policies”, back to staff and direct staff
to conduct robust consultation including the opportunity for all stakeholders and
residents to participate in consultation, and that staff incorporate the results of this
consultation into their report back to Council by September 2018.
not put
The Mayor asked the City Clerk if the referral was in order; she noted the referral was similar in
nature to the previous one and is therefore out of order. The Mayor agreed and the referral was
not put.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12:00 pm and reconvened at 2:08 pm.
* * * * *
Following further debate, the main motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 02925) with
Councillor De Genova opposed.
2. CD-1 Rezoning at 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of the Facades
of the Northern Electric Company Building
May 22, 2018
A. THAT the application by GBL Architects Inc., on behalf of Amacon Development
(Robson) Corp., to rezone 118 Robson Street [Lot C, Block 68, District Lot 541,
Plan 14094 , PID 003-374-688] and 150 Robson Street [Lots 1 to 7, Block 68,
District Lot 541, Plan 2565, PIDs 013-639-374, 013-639-421, 013-639-447,
013-639-463, 013-639-471, 013-639-501 and 013-639-528 respectively] and an
approximate 143.8 sq. m (1,548 sq. ft.) adjacent portion of road, to be stopped
up, closed and conveyed to the registered owner of 118-150 Robson Street, all
from DD (Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 5.00 to 10.07 to allow for the
construction of a 29-storey mixed use building, comprised of market residential,
hotel, and ground-floor retail and services uses, be referred to a Public Hearing,
together with:
(i) plans prepared by GBL Architects Inc., received February 28, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at 118-150
Robson Street and Heritage Designation of the Facades of the Northern
Electric Company Building”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 12
and Sustainability to approve, subject to conditions contained in
Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT the heritage designation of all four exterior facades (the “heritage
facades”) of the Northern Electric Company (NEC) Building (the “heritage
building”) at 150 Robson Street [Lots 1 to 7, Block 68, District Lot 541, Plan
2565, PIDs 013-639-374, 013-639-421, 013-639-447, 013-639-463,
013-639-471, 013-639-501 and 013-639-528 respectively], which is listed in the
“B” evaluation category on the Vancouver Heritage Register, as protected
heritage property, be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare a
Heritage Designation By-law, for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 22,
2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage
Designation of the Facades of the Northern Electric Company Building”, be
referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the Public Hearing.
D. THAT, subject to approval of the rezoning application, the Noise Control By-law
be amended to include this CD-1 in Schedule A, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning at
118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of the Facades of the Northern
Electric Company Building”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
E. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning, Council
authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to enter into a contract of purchase
and sale for property having a civic address of 877 Hamilton Street [Lots 22 and
23, both of Block 66, District Lot 541, Plan 210, PIDs: 015-458-873 and
015-458-857 respectively] for a nominal purchase price of $1.00 as further set
out in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning at 118-150 Robson Street and Heritage Designation of the Facades of
the Northern Electric Company Building”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 13
F. THAT A to E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02942)
3. CD-1 Rezoning: 1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive
May 22, 2018
A. THAT the application by Perkins+Will on behalf of Grandview Woodland Project
(Nominee) Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 1837-1857 East 11th Avenue
and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive [Strata Lots 1 and 2, all of District Lot 264A, Strata
Plan VR. 2475; Lots 21, 22 and 23 Except: the North 5 feet now lane, all of Lots
C and D, Block 162, District Lot 264A, Plans 1059 and 1771; Lots A, B, C and D,
all of Lots C and D, Block 162, District Lot 264A, Plan 2728; PIDs:014-713-195,
014-713-209, 014-861-411, 014-861-429,003-923-533, 004-120-060, 013-491-
890, 013-491-911 and 013-491-920 respectively ] from RM-4 (Multiple Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 1.45 to 3.60 and the maximum building height from
10.7 m (35 ft) to 33.5 m (110 ft.) to permit the development of an 11 storey
building with a five-storey podium containing 138 residential units, comprised of a
mixed-tenure of secured market rental units and strata titled market housing
units, along with the retention, relocation, designation and protection of a
heritage home at 1853-1857 East 11th Avenue, be referred to a public hearing,
together with:
(i) plans prepared by Perkins+Will, received April 27, 2017, and amended
December 18, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1837-1857
East 11th Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 14
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT the designation of the heritage building’s exterior at 1853-1857 East 11th
Avenue [Lot 23 Except: the North 5 feet now lane of Lots C and D, Block 162,
District Lot 264A, Plan 1059 and 1771; PID: 003-923-533] as protected heritage
property be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
Heritage Designation By-law generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1837-1857 East 11th
Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive” for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning, the
heritage designation and the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1837-1857 East 11th Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive”, the Director of
Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Heritage Designation and
Housing Agreement By-laws for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1
By-law contemplated by the above-noted report, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02943)
4. Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law
May 22, 2018
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
follows:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 15
(i) Create new district schedules for RM-11, RM-11N, and RM-12N zoning
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice in
Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law”;
(ii) Amend the C-2 District Schedule generally as set out in Appendix A of the
above-noted report;
(iii) Revise Schedule F of the Zoning and Development By-law as set out in
Appendix A of the above-noted report; and
(iv) Rezone those areas shown outlined in bold on Schedule A of Appendix A
of the above-noted report from RS-1, RS-5, RS-7, RT-4, RT-5, and
RT-5N to RM-11, RM-11N, RM-12N, or C-2;
in order to increase opportunities for housing choice and strengthen shopping
nodes;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT an application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for the
new RM 11, RM-11N, and RM-12N districts, generally as set out in Appendix B
to the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice in
Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law”, be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Parking
By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland –
Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Subdivision
By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland –
Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”.
E. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 16
to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, RM-11 and
RM-11N Guidelines, and RM-12N Guidelines, generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled “Increasing
Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law”, for Council adoption.
F. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, amended
C-2 Guidelines generally in accordance with Appendix C of the above-noted
report, for Council adoption.
G. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-law described in A above,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, related
amendments to the Strata Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones, generally in
accordance with Appendix D to the Policy Report dated May 22, 2018, entitled
“Increasing Housing Choice in Grandview-Woodland – Proposed Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law”, for Council adoption.
H. THAT C through G above also be referred to a Public Hearing.
I. THAT A through H above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
J. THAT Council direct staff to undertake additional technical analysis and public
consultation on potential land use changes in the following areas, as part of the
next phase of Grandview-Woodland Community Plan implementation:
(i) “Nanaimo East” area, along Nanaimo Street/North Nanaimo Street from
East Hastings Street to Wall Street;
(ii) 2300-block of Charles Street (south side)/Kitchener Street (north side);
and
(iii) 2400-block of East 12th Avenue (south side)/Grandview Highway North.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02944)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 17
5. Amendments to Zoning and Development By-law and Licence By-law to Align with
the Cannabis Control and Licensing Act
May 29, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to
enable regulation of non-medical cannabis retail outlets, generally in accordance
with Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 29, 2018, entitled “Amendments
to Zoning and Development By-law and Licence By-law to Align with the
Cannabis Control and Licensing Act”, and that the application be referred to a
Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare amendments to the
Licence By-law as outlined in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
May 29, 2018, entitled “Amendments to Zoning and Development By-law and
Licence By-law to Align with the Cannabis Control and Licensing Act”, to
implement the recommendations set out in the above-noted report regarding
Cannabis Retail.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, updates to
the Guidelines for Retail Dealer - Medical Marijuana-Related Uses Near Youth
Facilities to update the land use terminology, for Council adoption.
D. THAT, if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
described in A above is referred to Public Hearing, then an application to amend
the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan By-law to
update the land use for non-medical cannabis retail outlets, generally as set out
in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 29, 2018, entitled “Amendments to
Zoning and Development By-law and Licence By-law to Align with the Cannabis
Control and Licensing Act”, be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix C of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
E. THAT an application to amend the Downtown Official Development Plan By-law
to update the land use for non-medical cannabis retail outlets, generally as set
out in Appendix D of the Policy Report dated May 29, 2018, entitled
“Amendments to Zoning and Development By-law and Licence By-law to Align

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 18
with the Cannabis Control and Licensing Act”, be referred to the same Public
Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix D of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02945)
OTHER REPORTS
1. Naming of West End Lanes
April 23, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the existing lane located between Comox Street and Pendrell Street which
runs from Thurlow Street to Cardero Street, and from Bidwell Street to Stanley
Park, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix A of the Other Report dated
April 23, 2018, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes”, be named as
“Jepson-Young Lane”.
B. THAT the existing lane located between Harwood Street and Beach
Avenue/Pacific Street which runs from Burrard Street to Cardero Street, as
shown on the graphic attached as Appendix B of the Other Report dated
April 23, 2018, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes”, be named as “Jung Lane”.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
the appropriate amendments to the Street Name By-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02927)
BY-LAWS
Councillor Jang advised he had reviewed the proceedings with regard to By-laws 3 and 5, and
would be voting on the enactments.
Councillors Ball and Deal advised they had reviewed the proceedings with regard to By-law 6,
and would be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Bremner advised he had reviewed the proceedings with regard to By-laws 7 and 8,
and would be voting on the enactments.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 19
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 8 inclusive, and authorize
the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (500-650 West 57th Avenue)
(By-law No. 12106)
2. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Districts Parking
requirements (500-650 West 57th Avenue) (By-law No. 12107)
3. A By-law to amen Sign By-law No. 11879 (500-650 West 57th Avenue)
(By-law No. 12108)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote)
4. A By-law to amend Street Name By-law No. 4054 regarding the naming of various
West End Lanes (By-law No. 12109)
5. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (7638-7664 Cambie Street) (By-law No. 12110)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote)
6. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 regarding Zero Emissions
Buildings (By-law No. 12111)
(Mayor Robertson ineligible for the vote)
7. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (920 East Hastings Street - Ray-Cam Co-operative Community Centre)
(By-law No. 12112)
(Councillors Affleck, Louie and Reimer ineligible for the vote)
8. A By-law to amend CD-1 (33) By-law No. 4143 (401-719 Raymur Avenue - Stamps
Place Housing) (By-law No. 12113)
(Councillors Affleck, Louie and Reimer ineligible for the vote)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
None.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 20
B. Motions on Notice
1. Request for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
A. THAT Councillor Jang be granted Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings to be held September 25 and 27, 2018.
B. THAT Councillor Stevenson be granted Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from meetings to be held on June 6, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02948)
2. Giving Public More Time to Review Council Reports
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
WHEREAS
1. Typically, staff reports on City Council agendas are publicly posted to the City of
Vancouver website 6 to 7 days prior to the Council meetings at which the
recommendations in those reports will be considered for vote;
2. Some of these reports are hundreds of pages long and incorporate the results of
lengthy public consultation processes;
3. In some cases, the staff report is the first time that the public is able to assess
whether their input has been incorporated into staff recommendations;
4. On many occasions, speakers at Council meetings have expressed frustration
and dismay at not having enough time to review a lengthy report, assess the
degree to which public input has been incorporated, and confer with members of
their organizations about the report in order to provide Council with useful
feedback;
5. On several occasions, Council has delayed decision on a report and referred it
back to staff for more public consultation because the time for public review of
the report has been inadequate.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to:
i. Research best municipal practices on the timing of public release of
Council reports in advance of Council meeting;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 21
ii. Identify which types of reports are of most concern to the public when
they are released with inadequate time for public review;
iii. Report back to Council within six months with recommendations on
changes to the practices regarding timing of public release of Council
reports in advance of Council meetings.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02928)
3. Conversion Therapy
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
WHEREAS
1. The Council of the City of Vancouver is strongly committed to supporting the
equality and human rights of the LGBTQ2+ community and all city residents;
2. “Sex”, “sexual orientation” and “gender identity or expression” are prohibited
grounds of discrimination in the B.C. Human Rights Code;
3. The practice of “conversion therapy” or “reparative therapy”, pseudo-scientific
techniques that attempt to persuade persons to change their sexual orientation or
gender identity, is seriously harmful to persons and is opposed by the Canadian
Psychological Association, the World Health Organization, the American
Psychiatric Association, the American Medical Association and others;
4. Governments are recognizing the harms of “conversion therapy” and taking steps
to ban its practice:
a. In 2015, the province of Ontario adopted the Affirming Sexual Orientation
and Gender Identity Act to ban “conversion therapy” on minors and
prohibit practitioners from billing for the practice through public health
insurance;
b. In 2015, the province of Manitoba passed a health regulation banning
“conversion therapy”; and
c. In 2018, the European parliament voted to ban conversion therapy in
member states of the European Union;
5. The Council of the City of Vancouver is authorized to prohibit businesses, with a
unanimous vote of Council, under Section 203(d) of the Vancouver Charter and
has prohibited a variety of businesses under the Business Prohibition By-law,
No. 5156.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 22
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council support, in principle, amending the Business Prohibition By-law,
No. 5156, to prohibit the business of providing conversion therapy to minors.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be directed to bring forward for enactment
an amendment to the Business Prohibition By-law in accordance with this
resolution.
referred
The Mayor noted requests to speak to this motion had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Motion B.3, entitled “Conversion Therapy”, be referred to the Standing Committee
on City Finance and Services meeting on Wednesday, June 6, 2018, at 9:30 am, to hear
from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02950)
4. Rainbow Crosswalk
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
WHEREAS
1. As identified in Trans*, Gender Variant and Two-Spirit Inclusion at the City of
Vancouver Report (2016) and by Saewyc, Poon, Kovaleva, Tourand, and Smith
(2016), LGBTQ2S+ people in BC experience significantly higher rates of bullying,
harassment and suicide than other populations, and the lack of visible
representations of LGBTQ2S+ people in the broader community exacerbates
these harms;
2. Vancouver has taken a leadership role in protecting LGBTQ2S+ people in our
city. Several local governments in British Columbia are being asked to increase
visible representation of the LGBTQ2S+ community by installing rainbow
crosswalks and are unsure how to proceed. Standardized guidelines on
implementing such projects do not yet exist in BC.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee
recommends that Council put forward the following motion at the Union of BC
Municipalities meeting in 2018:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 23
“RAINBOW CROSSWALKS”
WHEREAS
1. LGBTQ2S+ people in British Columbia experience significantly higher
rates of bullying, harassment and suicide than other populations and a
lack of visible representation of LGBTQ2S+ community exacerbates
these harms;
2. A number of local governments in BC are being asked to increase visible
representation of the LGBTQ2S+ community through the installation of
rainbow crosswalks and would benefit from standardized guidelines on
how to implement such projects.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Government of British
Columbia be requested to inform and advise local governments on best
practices to handle such requests, and to provide financial and technical
support to local governments regarding visual representations of the
LGBTQ2S+ community, such as rainbow crosswalks.
References
(2016) Trans*, Gender Variant and Two-Spirit Inclusion at the City of Vancouver.
Retrieved from City of Vancouver website: http://vancouver.ca/files/cov/trans-
gender-variant-and-two-spirit-inclusion-at-the-city-of-vancouver.pdf
Saewyc E., Poon C., Kovaleva K., Tourand J., & Smith A. (2016). School-based
interventions to reduce health disparities among LGBTQ youth: Considering the
evidence. Vancouver: McCreary Centre Society & Stigma and Resilience Among
Vulnerable Youth Centre.
referred
The Mayor noted requests to speak to this motion had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Motion B.4, entitled “Rainbow Crosswalk”, be referred to the Standing Committee
on City Finance and Services meeting on Wednesday, June 6, 2018, at 9:30 am, to hear
from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02951)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 24
5. Establish Joint Council on Childcare in By-law
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Accessible, affordable and quality childcare is essential to the health and
well-being of the city of Vancouver’s children and families;
2. The Joint Council on Childcare (JCC) was originally established in 2004 as a joint
initiative of the City, Park Board and School Board to advise City Council on how
to accelerate the building of childcare on municipally owned lands;
3. Over the years, the JCC has expanded to include membership from the
Vancouver Public Library and Vancouver Coastal Health, as well as
representatives from larger childcare operators, childcare resource hubs, unions
that represent childcare workers, and the building sectors;
4. The primary function of the JCC has evolved to provide advice directly to staff
that aids in their efforts to achieve the targeted number of new childcare spaces,
and in ensuring the policy goals in Healthy City and other policy documents
relating to early care and learning are met;
5. The JCC has successfully overseen the creation of 1,982 new spaces of
childcare, the renovation of existing childcare spaces, and has been a key driver
in informing recent provincial and national government childcare policy and
funding changes;
6. Despite the current function of providing advice to staff, the JCC continues to be
constituted as an advisory committee to Council;
7. Other committees providing advice to staff are created through by-law including
the Vancouver Heritage Commission, Urban Design Panel and Development
Permit Board.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for enactment a by-law to establish a Joint Council on
Childcare (JCC), generally in accordance with the previously approved Terms of
Reference for the JCC, last approved by Council on December 16, 2014, in the
motion entitled “Joint Council on Childcare”, and set out below:
Overview The purpose of the Joint Council on Childcare is to provide leadership in
seeking resources, planning, development, and coordination, problem-
solving and monitoring of childcare, and early care and learning. The Joint
Council on Childcare will provide input and assistance on implementation
challenges in childcare and child development services and advice on
proposed policy and issue papers. While the focus of the Joint Council on
Childcare will be primarily childcare in publicly-owned facilities and/or land,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 25
consideration will be given to policies and practices that support the
broader childcare system.
Mandate The Joint Council on Childcare will be responsible for providing direction
and leadership in the implementation of the actions set out in the protocol
Child Care – A Commitment from Local Government approved by City
Council in 2004. Where necessary, elected officials will take forward
recommendations of the Joint Council on Childcare to their respective civic
bodies.
Terms of The Joint Council on Childcare will work on the following activities and will
Reference report to the City and the two Boards on their progress as required.
• Establish policies and practices which either facilitate childcare
services or eliminate barriers to developing and sustaining
childcare services across local governments.
• Develop coordinated planning and delivery standards and
practices for childcare across local governments (e.g. facility
standards, costs, operating agreements, maintenance).
• Identify opportunities to integrate childcare in future development
and into local government Capital and Operating budget cycles to
facilitate equitable child development hubs based on current
planning, demographic data and research, and reduce or subsidize
childcare operating costs
• Advocate for a model of care and learning consistent with the
framework set out in the Coalition for Child Care BC “A public
system of integrated early care and learning”
 Establish a relationship and mechanism to dialogue with
municipalities across the province and the country for the purpose
of improving childcare and more coordinated advocacy on senior
government policy and funding for early care and learning.
Membership  One elected official from each of the City, Park and School Boards.
 One staff person with knowledge of issues related to children and
their caregivers from the two Boards and the City.
 Three community non-profit child care operators and Westcoast
Child Care Resource Centre.
 Chief medical health officer from VCH
 Representative from University of British Columbia – Human Early
Learning Partnership.
 Other representatives as the Joint Council on Childcare deems
appropriate

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 26
Members would be prepared to participate on the Joint Council on
Childcare for the four-year term and would provide an informed
replacement in the event of absence.
Where necessary, other City and/or community partners will be invited to
the meetings to aid in informing Vancouver City Council/School and Park
Board members.
Chair The Joint Council on Childcare will be co-chaired by a City of Vancouver
Senior Social Planner, or designate, and an elected official. Meetings will
be supported by social policy staff and minuted.
Term The Joint Council on Childcare will meet for a half day, a minimum of two
times per year, for a four-year term coinciding with a civic election term.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02929)
6. National Plastic Reduction Strategy
The motion below contains changes from the original Notice of Motion which were accepted by
Council.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
WHEREAS
1. Ocean health and the impacts of plastic pollution will be priority topics under
discussion at the G7 meeting, hosted by Canada in Charlevoix June 8 to 9, 2018;
2. Canada has the opportunity to become a zero waste leader by developing a
national strategy and advocating for the development of a new global treaty to
combat plastic pollution;
3. As a local municipal government of a coastal city, Vancouver is on the front lines
dealing with plastic pollution on our shorelines and ocean.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT City Council request the Federal Government to develop a national
strategy that seeks to eliminate plastic pollution, with regulations aimed at:
1. Eliminating the use of problematic products and packaging that pollute
our environment such as the industrial use of micro-plastics including, but
not limited to, microbeads, nurdles, fibrous microplastics and fragments;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 27
2. Reducing consumer and industrial use of single-use plastics, including,
but not limited to, plastic bags, bottles, straws, tableware, polystyrene
(foam), plastic tea bags, cigarette filters, and beverage containers;
3. Designing products and packaging that are reusable, recyclable, or
compostable;
4. Incenting the reduction of waste, reusability of products and packaging,
and ensuring all products and packaging can practically be recyclable;
5. Establishing consistent national definitions (e.g. circular economy,
resource recovery and recycling), performance standards, and
measurement protocols for achieving targets;
6. Developing a national single-use plastics reduction and recycling
performance standard;
7. Establishing a national single-use plastics recycled content performance
standard;
8. Supporting commodity markets that incent the use of secondary materials
over virgin materials;
9. Making the producers of products and packaging directly responsible for
reducing resource consumption; and
10. Incorporating a just transition strategy for affected workers.
B. FURTHER THAT City Council forward this motion to the Federation of Canadian
Municipalities (FCM) and request that this resolution be considered at an
upcoming FCM Board meeting.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02930)
NEW BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted Leave of Absence for Civic Business from
meetings to be held June 7, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02931)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 28
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Phil Bouvier Family Centre Daycare Closure
Councillor Reimer requested a memo regarding the recent closure of the Phil Bouvier Family
Centre Daycare which is run by the Vancouver Native Health Society. The City Manager agreed
to provide an update.
2. Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women National Inquiry Extension
Councillor Reimer requested a memo regarding the extension of the MMIW National Inquiry with
regard to the Saa-ust Centre and the City’s submission. The City Manager agreed to provide an
update.
3. 150+ Place Naming Project Update
Councillor Reimer requested an update on the five action items contained in her motion entitled
“150+ Place Naming Project”, which was considered at the Regular Council meeting on
March 28, 2017. The City Manager agreed to provide an update.
4. Recognizing Dal Richards
Councillor De Genova requested an update on her motion entitled “Recognizing Dal Richards’
Life and Legacy in the City of Vancouver”, which was considered at the Regular Council
meeting on January 19, 2016. Councillor Reimer provided an update.
5. Loading Zone Times
Councillor De Genova requested an update on the three minute limit for loading zones at
hospitals and childcare facilities. The City Manager agreed to send the most recent update.
6. Van Seized due to Parking Tickets
Councillor Carr noted a recent media report regarding a homeless man in Vancouver who had
his van seized for numerous parking tickets. She asked that the issue of individuals using
vehicles as homes be included in the next staff report on housing with regard to how the City
can deal with that particular situation. The City Manager provided information and agreed to
follow-up.
7. School Tax on Property Tax
Councillor Carr requested information regarding when and why the school tax was added to the
property tax in Vancouver. The City Manager agreed to follow-up.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 5, 2018 29
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 3:24 pm.
* * * * *