PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
MAY 22, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, May 22, 2018, at 6:03 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Acting Mayor Raymond Louie
Councillor George Affleck*
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Medical Leave)
Councillor Heather Deal (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
Acting Mayor Louie acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on
these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Acting Mayor Louie reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Acting Mayor Louie in
the Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development and
Sign By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Bremner, Carr, De Genova, Jang, Reimer, Stevenson and
Acting Mayor Louie opposed)
(Councillor Affleck absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Zero Emissions Buildings Catalyst Tools
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make amendments to Section 3 and Section 11 of the Zoning and
Development By-law, to provide the Director of Planning with the ability to
relax regulations in District Schedules for Zero Emissions Buildings containing
six or more dwelling units, and to allow up to a 5% Floor Space Ratio increase
for Zero Emissions Buildings containing six or more dwelling units; and to
seek Council approval of the Zero Emissions Buildings Catalyst Policy. The
recommendations provide policy and regulations that better enable the
Director of Planning to support Zero Emissions Buildings in advance of
codification of GHG reductions in the Building By-law. The policy would also
provide clarity and guidance for staff and applicants for how the amendments
can be applied to eligible buildings. These by-law amendments would cease
to be in effect after December 31, 2025.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to
Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 4 pieces of correspondence in support of the application.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application.
Akua Schatz, Canada Green Building Council, spoke in support of the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 6:17 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 3
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to allow the
Director of Planning to relax regulatory provisions of the By-law, and to allow for
an incremental increase of permitted floor area of up to 5% for buildings
designed to achieve the Passive House or International Living Future Institute
Zero Energy standard, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated April 18, 2018, entitled “Zero Emissions Buildings Catalyst Tools”,
be approved.
B. THAT the Zero Emissions Buildings Catalyst Policy (attached as Appendix B to
the Policy Report dated April 18, 2018, entitled “Zero Emissions Buildings
Catalyst Tools”), which provides the Director of Planning with guidance to
advance the Zero Emissions Building Plan, be approved;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to implement the tools provided in the policy to
advance the design and construction of Zero Emissions Buildings in Vancouver;
AND FURTHER THAT staff develop administrative guidelines as required to
support implementation of the Zero Emissions Building Catalyst Policy.
C. THAT Council direct staff to review the CaGBC Zero Carbon Building Standard
and consider an alternative compliance pathway that secures significantly lower
greenhouse gas emissions over the life of the building through design and
construction requirements, and report back to Council by September with
recommendations for including the Standard in the Zero Emissions Building
Catalyst Policy, the General Policy for Higher Buildings, and/or the Green
Building Policy for Rezonings, as appropriate.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02910)
2. REZONING: 425 West 6th Avenue
An application by IBI Group Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 425 West 6th Avenue from C-3A (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of
a 10-storey office building with commercial retail use at grade. A height of
43.2 m (141.7 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 7.11 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated May 15, 2018, from the Assistant Director
of Planning, Rezoning Centre, which noted that after finalizing the Policy Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 425 West 6th Avenue”, staff confirmed the height
calculation of View Cone 9.1 and concluded there was a technical error in section 5 “Building

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 4
Height” of the draft CD-1 by-law in Appendix A of the above-noted report, and that the posted
by-law had been changed to the following:
5. Building height, measured from base surface, must not exceed 43.6 m, except that no
part of the development shall protrude into the approved view corridors, as set out in the
City of Vancouver View Protection Guidelines.
The memorandum also noted that the applicant had requested additional uses for inclusion in
the CD-1 by-law, and that staff had supported the addition of the following uses:
(a) Retail Uses
• Vehicle Dealer
(b) Manufacturing
• Clothing Manufacturing
• Creative Products Manufacturing
• Information Communication Technology Manufacturing
• Jewellery Manufacturing
• Miscellaneous Products Manufacturing – Class B
(c) Wholesale Uses
• Wholesaling – Class A
• Wholesaling – Class B
The posted by-law for this application had been prepared to reflect the changes outlined in this
memorandum. Therefore, no action was required on the part of Council.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application. Engineering Services
staff responded to questions regarding parking.
Applicant Comments
Members of the applicant team were available for questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 1 piece of correspondence in opposition to the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 5
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Serena Sawyer
Louise Webb
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 6:31 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Nathan Gurvich, Cressey Development Group provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and Engineering Services staff responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
A. THAT the application by IBI Group on behalf of Cressey (West 6th) Holdings Ltd.,
to rezone 425 West 6th Avenue [Lots 9 and 10, Block 12, District Lot 302, Plan
5832; PIDs: 011-068-264 and 010-723-196 respectively; and Lots A, B and C, all
of Lots 11 and 12, Block 12, District Lot 302, Plan 7117; PIDs: 010-723-200, 010
723-218 and 010-723-226 respectively] from C-3A (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to increase the floor space ratio (FSR)
from 3.00 to 7.11 to permit the development of a 10-storey office building with
commercial retail use at grade and a maximum building height of 43.2 m
(141.7 ft.) generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 425 West 6th Avenue”, be approved
subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by IBI Group and stamped “Received City
of Vancouver, November 21, 2017”, subject to the following conditions,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this
form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 6
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve building massing and setbacks, to
better relate to the scale of the streetscape and improve its
architectural expression, as follows:
(i) On Levels 2 to 4, set back the west “podium” element by
0.9 m from the south PL, to align with Level 1 building face;
(ii) On Level 5, maintain the proposed 3.0 m setback from the
floor below (noting that this requires moving the south wall
back 0.9 m); and
(iii) On Levels 6 to 8, add a minimum 3.0 m setback from the
south PL to the floor below, to create a significant change
in plane between the “podium” element and this
“transitional” volume.
Note to Applicant: This condition will result in a reduction in floor
area of approx. 245 m2 to 7.11 FSR. (This density reduction is
reflected in the CD-1 By-law.). Other setbacks (i.e. from north,
west, and east PLs), should be maintained as proposed.
2. Design development to improve the building elevations, as
follows:
(i) Extend fritting to corners, on the west “faceted” volume;
(ii) Provide horizontal fritting on the podium elevation, to better
express the horizontal streetwall and to contrast the
vertical, “faceted” volume; and
(iii) Consideration to refine the design of solar shading
devices, taking into account an overall simplification of the
building detailing, as well as maintenance (i.e. window
washing).
Note to Applicant: Further simplification and refinement of the
building elevations are recommended at the Development Permit
stage.
3. Design development to improve the interface of the public realm
as follows:
(i) Reconfigure, reduce or remove the water feature on
Yukon Street, to improve access to retail units;
(ii) Reconfigure the stair in the east sidewalk, to avoid conflicts
with the PBS station and the retail entrance; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 7
(iii) Consider adding opportunities for seating on Yukon Street
(potentially integrating into the water feature).
4. Design development to improve the common outdoor spaces, by
adding weather protection at doorways to rooftop patios.
Note to Applicant: Weather protection is typically provided as
cantilevered canopies, 4 ft. depth. Larger covered areas may be
proposed, but may be included in floor space calculations.
5. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any
built features intended to create a bird friendly design;
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples, and provide a design rationale for any features
provided
(http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.)
Landscape
6. Design development to enhance the sustainable character of the
building by enabling the rooftop terrace planting to be visible from
the street.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by locating the planting
beds around the perimeter of the terraces.
7. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and public
realm.
8. Provision of an arborist report to justify tree removal of any
proposed removals and recommend tree protection measures for
the retained trees.
Note to Applicant: If required, a Letter of Assurance should also
be submitted to ensure that arborist will supervise any work within
the tree protection zones.
9. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
10. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted.
The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials
(with common and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities),
paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other
landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List
that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 8
should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should match the
architectural site plan.
11. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2"=1'-0" scale to illustrate
typical proposed landscape elements including planters on
structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details should show dimensioned
rootballs to confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well
into the future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standard.
12. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for all
planted areas.
13. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
Sustainability
14. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate
near zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later)
http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/Bulletin/G002_2017April28.pdf.
Engineering
15. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from), and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal
or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 9
16. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
17. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
18. A review of the existing street tree locations and scale/size of tree
to determine if the proposed building location will have a negative
impact on retention of the trees and a review to determine a
construction methodology that will ensure the protection of the
trees and tree canopies during the construction period and post
occupancy.
19. Place the following statement on the landscape plan: “This plan is
“NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of
any construction proposed for public property. No work on public
property may begin until such plans receive “For Construction”
approval and related permits are issued. Please contact
Engineering Services, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details”.
20. Update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public realm
changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for this
rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please make
note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to Engineering Services
for review.
21. A solar shade application to Engineering Development Services
is required for the portions of metal sunshades proposed to
encroach over West 6th Avenue. The sunshades are to be
lightweight and demountable, and the applicant must provide
rationale for these sunshades.
22. Provision of generous and continuous weather protection on
Yukon Street and West 6th Avenue.
Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 10
public property. Note canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the drip
line is achieving maximum and continuous weather protection for
the sidewalk users.
23. Delete the water feature from the 4 ft. dedication on Yukon Street
and show standard city sidewalk treatments.
24. The proposed 16 m x 4 m PBS space as shown on private
property at the northeast corner of the site along Yukon Street is
acceptable provided applicant confirms there are no fire
connections on the building wall along the length of the PBS
space. Consideration for placement of building elements (e.g. fire
department connections, HVAC vents, etc.) and landscaping that
require frequent access and maintenance directly adjacent to the
PBS space so as not to conflict or cause frequent disruption to the
PBS station.
25. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room and note on drawings.
26. Provision of a plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
27. Existing wood pole(s) in lane conflict with parking access.
Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the appropriate public utility companies
for pole relocation(s) are required. Written confirmation from all
utilities including any City of Vancouver utility for relocation of the
wood poles and any infrastructure attached to the poles. Should
this result in the need for kiosks, cabinets, transformers or similar
needs the space for these items is to be provided for on site.
28. Provision of gridline numbers for reference on the drawings.
29. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of a section drawing showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and
through the loading bay and additional dimensions on the
section drawings showing vertical clearance within the
parking levels. Ensure adequate vertical clearance is
provided for mechanical projections, utilities and other
services.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 11
(ii) Provision of additional loading space width and load
throats for the Class B loading spaces.
(iii) Dimension all columns and column encroachments.
(iv) Provision of additional information on the drawings
showing dimensions and vertical clearance for the
overhead security gate.
(v) Provision of additional information showing the overhead
door separating the residential parking spaces from the
commercial parking spaces.
(vi) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints and at all entrances.
(vii) Additional design elevations are required to confirm the
slope and cross fall within the parking levels do not exceed
5%. Slopes and cross fall to be clearly shown on the
drawings.
(viii) Provision of parking spaces that do not infringe upon the
drive aisle or other parking spaces.
Note to Applicant: Parking spaces 18 and 19 on
Parking P1 are locations that need adjusting. The
corresponding parking spaces on each parking level
should be checked.
(ix) 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for access and
maneuvering to all disability spaces and must be noted on
the drawings.
(x) Dimension the access aisle width in the bicycle storage
rooms.
(xi) Dimension the size of the bicycle spaces.
(xii) Clarify and show the slope of the internal loading corridor
from the Class B loading space(s) to the CRUs on the
drawings.
30. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver
Parking By-law.
Green Infrastructure
Provision of a detailed response toward the IRMP requirements outlined
in the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings, and the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 12
31. As the project moves to detailed design, provide a Rainwater
Management Plan (RMP) that details how the rainwater
management system meets the IRMP requirements for infiltration,
cleaning and safe conveyance, prepared by a subject matter
expert (Engineer), subject to review.
(i) In this instance of a zero lot line design staff will consider:
a) The first 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
retention volume for runoff reduction instead of
infiltration volume;
b) Retention can be achieved through rainwater
reuse, in green roofs and planter boxes, or slow
release detention such as lined permeable
pavement systems; and
c) The second 24 mm of rainfall within 24 hours as a
water quality volume to be treated.
(ii) Staff do not accept the principle that distinct site areas that
have large infiltration and/or storage capacity in some way
compensate for those areas of the site that are impervious,
without the first and second 24 mm of runoff being directed
towards these absorbent areas, and this being clearly
demonstrated. The subsequent safe conveyance of rainfall
surpassing 48 mm in 24 hours will also need to be
demonstrated.
a) The drawings indicate that much of the growing
medium is above the level of adjacent paving. In
such cases staff do not accept that these elevated
growing medium volumes contribute to the storage
and/or treatment of rainwater that has been
directed towards these areas from adjacent
surfaces; and
b) Provide confirmation that the stone paving is
permeable.
(iii) Submit a plan illustrating how rainfall is directed from
impermeable surfaces into planted or other
storage/treatment areas.
(iv) Provide outline area/volume calculations to support the
overall rainwater management strategy. Include the area
measurement for all pervious/impervious areas and
demonstrate that each of the receiving infiltration/treatment
areas can accommodate the proposed runoff volumes
without being inundated.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 13
(v) Vegetated areas on slab, while not infiltration, will be
considered as rainwater retention/runoff reduction and
water quality practices.
a) Planters designed as flow-through planters can be
used to meet the treatment volume requirement;
b) Consider increasing the depth of soil throughout
planted areas and include shallow ponding depths
within the planted areas as part of the calculations.
(vi) The building/public realm should be designed to show
leadership in the City’s commitment to Green Building
systems including an integrative approach to rainwater
management to minimize potable water use and
encourage the use of alternative water sources in areas
such as toilet flushing and irrigation.
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure on-going
operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater management
and green infrastructure systems.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 9 and 10, Plan 5832; and Lots A, B and C of
Lots 11 and 12, Plan 7117, all of Block 12, District Lot 302 to
create a single parcel and subdivision of that site to result in the
dedication of the easterly 4 ft. (the building line area) for road
purposes.
Note to Applicant: A subdivision plan and application to the
Subdivision and Strata Group is required.
2. Provision of a Statutory Right of Way (SRW) for public pedestrian
use of an expanded sidewalk over the area of the site adjacent to
the south property line to give an overall distance of 4.5 m (14’-9”)
from the existing back of curb. The SRW is to be free of any
encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door-swings, benches,
landscape and bicycle parking at grade but the SRW agreement
will accommodate portions of Levels 2 to 6 within the SRW area.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 14
3. Provision of a natural watercourse agreement. Records indicate a
natural watercourse passes through this site, a legal agreement
ensuring that should the watercourse be discovered or impact the
site during development and beyond that its flow will not be
obstructed.
4. Provision for a Right of Way for space to accommodate a Public
Bike Share (PBS) Station.
Size: At a minimum a 16m x 4m sized station must be
accommodated. The physical station with docked bicycles is 2m
wide and has a required bicycle maneuvering zone of 2m for a
total width of 4m. The 2m maneuvering space may be shared with
pedestrian space.
Location: The station must be located on private property while
still clearly visible to the public with 24/7 public access and
allowing easy access to the street.
Surface treatment: A hard surface is required with no utility
access points within 150mm. Acceptable surfaces include CIP
concrete (saw cut or broom finished), asphalt and pavers. Other
firm, paved materials are subject to approval.
Grades: The surface must be leveled with a maximum cross
slope of 3% and have a consistent grade (i.e. no grade transitions)
along the length with a maximum slope of 5%. At minimum, spot
elevations at the four corners of the station must be provided.
Sun exposure: No vertical obstructions to maximize sun
exposure as station operates on solar power. Ideally the station
should receive 5 hours of direct sunlight a day.
Power: Provide and maintain electrical power and electrical
service to the public bike share station from the lands, at the sole
cost and expense of the Owner prior to occupancy of the building.
5. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 144375M
(commercial crossing) and Covenant/SRW BG175059-61
(Parking) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
6. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 15
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of a full traffic signal at the intersection of Yukon
St and W 6th Ave including all adjustments to existing
infrastructure to allow for the signals installation.
(iii) Provision of curb bulges along W 6th Ave on both the north
and south side of 6th Ave at Yukon St including all
adjustments to existing infrastructure to allow for the curb
bulge installation.
(iv) Provision of a 1.53 m (5’-0”) sod lawn front boulevard and
light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk between the
front boulevard and the new property line on Yukon St.
(v) Provision of a standard exposed aggregate front boulevard
and light broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk between
the front boulevard and 0.3 m building strip on W 6th Ave
adjacent the site.
(vi) Provision of a new curb return and ramps at the 6th
Avenue and Yukon Street corner of the site.
(vii) Provision of standard concrete lane crossing on the west
side of Yukon Street at the lane south of 5th Avenue
including new curb returns and ramps on both sides of the
lane entry.
(viii) Replacement of the existing concrete vault covers located
in the grass boulevard along the Yukon St frontage of the
site. There are two (2) vault covers that require
replacement to more slip resistant and safe walking
surfaces as they will be located in the main City sidewalk.
(ix) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current LED standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required. Note the existing street light at the lane entry is to

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 16
be relocated as well as upgraded to allow for a standard
lane entry to be constructed.
7. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with BC
Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
8. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that
meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Watercourse
By-law. The plan shall achieve the following objectives:
(i) The 10-year post development; storm event rate shall be
maintained to the pre-development level.
(ii) The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curve, whereas
(iii) The post development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure on-going
operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater management
and green infrastructure systems.
Sustainability
9. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 17
Public Art
10. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please contact 311 to be directed to the
Public Art Program Manager to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
11. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been issued to the City.
Non-stratification Covenant
12. Enter into a Covenant pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title
Act prohibiting both the separate sale and the strata subdivision of
all commercial and office floor space.
Commercial Linkage Contribution
13. Pay to the City a contribution of $990,977, which the applicant
has offered to the City. Payment is to be made prior to enactment
of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 18
$990,977 is to be allocated toward funding of childcare facilities
and/or affordable housing in and around the Metro Core area.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject site as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and
otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment
of the By-law and at no cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for
this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 425 West 6th Avenue”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 425 West 6th Avenue”.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a By-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02911)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 19
3. REZONING: 2109 East Hastings Street
An application by Mosaic Avenue Developments and Yamamoto Architecture was considered
as follows:
Summary: To rezone 2109 East Hastings Street from C-2C1 (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
six-storey mixed-use building with commercial uses at grade and 42 secured
for-profit affordable rental housing units. A height of 22.9 m (75.1 ft.) and a
floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.20 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application.
Applicant Comments
Members of the applicant team were available for questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 8 pieces of correspondence in support of the application.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Patricia Barnes, Executive Director, Hastings North BIA
David Hutniak, Landlord BC
Brendan Dawe
Erika Bell
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 7:02 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Engineering Services staff responded to questions regarding parking.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 20
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application by Mosaic Avenue Developments Ltd. and Yamamoto
Architecture Inc. on behalf of Mosaic Hastings and Lakewood Holdings Ltd. to
rezone 2109 East Hastings Street [Lots 15 and 16, Except (A) the North 20 Feet
and (B) Part in Explanatory Plan 7029, Block 40, District Lot 184, Plan 178;
PIDS: 014-014-904 and 014-014-921 respectively] from C-2C1 (Commercial)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 3.00 to 3.20 and the maximum building height from 13.8
m (45.3 ft.) to 22.9 m (75.1 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey mixed-
use building with commercial uses at grade and 42 secured for-profit affordable
rental housing units above and 42 underground parking spaces, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018 entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 2109 East Hastings Street”, be approved subject to the
following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Yamamoto Architecture Inc. and
stamped “Received City Planning Department, August 24, 2017”, subject
to the following conditions, provided that the Director of Planning may
allow minor alterations to this form of development when approving the
detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to enhance the pedestrian scale and interest
on both East Hastings and Lakewood Drive by providing the
following:
a) Reduce extent of blank walls at the street interface.
Alternatively, high quality materials combined with
intensive detailing can be considered.
Note to Applicant: due to the sloped site condition, finished
floor (corner CRU) varies from approximately 1’-0” to 5’-0”
above surrounding grade which results in high blank walls.
b) Lower weather canopies (for the retail frontage) along
Lakewood Drive.
Note to Applicant: canopy height varies from 14’-16’ due to
a sloping site. Stepping the canopy height to align with the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 21
sloping grade can improve weather protection and
relationship to pedestrian scale.
2. Design development to enhance the lane interface and improve
transition to the neighbouring residential front yard, by providing
the following:
a) Setback rear exit stairs to align with exterior face of
amenity room.
Note to Applicant: resulting outdoor space to be revised to
amenity room patio and landscaped.
b) Consolidate service functions and simplify volumetric
expression.
c) Provide quality and durable exterior finishes, in particular,
facing the property across the lane.
3. Provision to contribute to public realm along
East Hastings Street by adhering to SRW setbacks
outlined in the Grandview-Woodland Community Plan.
Note to Applicant: Building massing must not encroach into SRW.
4. The proposed unit mix, providing 12 studio units, 14 one-bedroom
units, 14 two-bedroom units and 2 three-bedroom units, is to be
included in the development permit drawings. The two and three
bedroom units account for 38 per cent of the units.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 35 per cent of the dwelling units designed to be
suitable for families with children.
5. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any
built features intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a
design rationale for the features noted. For more information, see
the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 22
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Sustainability
7. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Landscape Design
8. Provision of an arborist report that assesses requirements for any
necessary canopy or root pruning for street trees.
9. Further coordination with Park Board and the project arborist at
the development permit stage to protect tree roots and careful
management of any tree pruning work associated with building
setback clearances and public realm improvements.
10. Provision of a fully detailed Landscape Plan.
Note to Applicant: The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant sizes
and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading
and other landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a
Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The
Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
11. Provision of details and sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) showing the
growing medium, soil, building wall and proposed climbing plant
system, typically cables or metal grid, to which climbing plants
may be established on the walls of the building.
12. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on
architectural expression, open space and public realm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 23
13. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable.
Note to Applicant: street trees to be shown on the development
permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building
permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604.871.6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604.257.8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final
spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of
good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall
be 8 ft. long and 18 in. deep. Planting depth of root ball must be
below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree
planting completion".
14. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose
bibs for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: Hose bibs are requested to encourage patio
gardening and hand watering in amenity decks. Any limitations to
the installation of hose bibs on private decks should be brought to
the attention of staff in the written response.
15. Provision of a Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings. All existing light poles should be shown.
16. Provision of an updated Stormwater Management Plan.
Note to Applicant: Only required if design development results in
changes to site that alter the storm water calculations at the
development permit stage.
Engineering Services
17. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver
Parking By-law.
18. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare
a mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal
or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 24
19. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
20. Provision of construction details to determine ability to
meet municipal design standards for shotcrete removal
(Street Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment
By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site. Current construction practices
regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk
during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems.
Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the
building permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
21. Confirmation that the existing wood pole on site (at the north east
corner) can be relocated or eliminated as it blocks the parkade
ramp.
22. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over
public property. Note canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the drip
line is achieving maximum and continuous weather protection for
the sidewalk users.
23. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: “This
plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No work on
public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for
this rezoning, where a design or detail is not available please
make note of the improvement on the site and/or landscape plans.
Please submit a copy of the updated plan to engineering for
review.
24. Design development to comply with the Parking and Loading
Design Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services (GMES). The following items are required:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 25
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the loading
bay, and the disability stall at the lane to calculate the
slope and crossfall.
Note to Applicant: The slope and crossfall must not exceed
5 per cent.
(ii) Provision of minimum vertical clearance for the loading
bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans.
(iii) Design development to provide unfettered access to the
Class B loading space.
Note to Applicant: Access to the full width of the loading
space is required. Consider modifying the garbage room to
achieve this.
(iv) Provision of ‘stairs free’ loading access from the Class B
loading space to all CRUs and note on plans.
Design development to achieve ‘stairs free’ loading access
for the partition shown within the restaurant space and
note on plans.
Note to Applicant: Engineering acknowledges the
submission of civil design drawings and will add it to the
design review cue but it is to be noted that the approval of
the rezoning does result in approval of the civil design
drawings, a separate review will follow.
25. Provision of double throats for the Class B loading space as
shown.
Note to Applicant: The width of the lane is reduced to 4.2m at
Templeton Drive. Through the Development Permit review
process, staff is willing to consider a reduced 2nd loading bay
throat.
26. Design development to provide Class B loading access to the
residential elevator core.
Note to Applicant: The bicycle facility on Lakewood Drive will
remove parking or stopping on the east side of the street.
27. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 26
28. Provision of an improved plan showing 6 Class B bicycle spaces
on private property.
Note to Applicant: Locate the bike rack in close proximity to the
lobby entrance with ‘stairs free’ access. Ensure that bicycles
locked to the rack do not encroach over the property line.
29. Design development to provide generous and continuous weather
protection on East Hastings Street frontage.
Green Infrastructure
30. Clarification of the stormwater management plan is required such
that a final agreed upon plan is accepted, including any legal
arrangement necessary to ensure the ongoing operation of plan
requirements.
31. Staff are seeking clarification on a number of points in the detailed
calculations for the stormwater management facility design:
(i) The objective for the first 24mm per day is stated as being
‘capture’. The intent of the policy is to deal with the 1st
24mm through infiltration or reuse at source, this would
include detain for reuse.
(ii) Please confirm the area calculations for the tree planters,
soft landscaping and pervious paving used in the details
calculations, they appear incorrect.
(iii) There is double accounting in the available storage in
growing medium. The area for the tree planters has also
been included in the area calculation for 450mm depth.
(iv) The permeable pavers must have a base of CLEAR
crushed gravel. The void ratio of clear crushed gravel is
typically 0.35, not 0.2.
(v) The summary compares ‘capture capacity’ of the softscape
and pervious pavers against the overall 24mm capture
target. The summary should use the 24 mm rainfall figure
for both softscape and pervious pavers against the 24 mm
capture target. Staff do not accept the principle that distinct
site areas that have large infiltration and/or storage
capacity in some way compensate for those areas of the
site that are impervious without runoff being directed
towards the absorbent areas.
32. Where infiltration is not feasible due to zero lot line development
or geotechnical conditions, the 24 mm infiltration goal can be
achieved through retention. Retention can be achieved through
rainwater reuse, in green roofs and planter boxes, or slow release
detention such as lined permeable pavement systems.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 27
33. Detention tanks shall be considered only where alternative
approaches to rainwater retention prove unacceptable. Where
detention tanks are to be proposed they shall store water for
alternative uses on site. Detention tanks are not considered to
form part of the treatment chain of the first 24 mm if the rainwater
captured is not for reuse.
34. The second 24 mm of rainfall must be cleaned before entering the
detention tank. The detention tank as shown is not considered to
be designed for water quality treatment.
35. As the project moves to development permit, provide a revised
Rainwater Management Plan (RMP), that details how the
rainwater management system meets the IRMP requirements.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure
on-going operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater
management and green infrastructure systems.
Affordable Housing
36. The building is to comply with the High Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity
room with kitchenette and accessible washroom.
Note to Applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas
should be adjacent to one another and have direct visual and
physical connection between them.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 15 and 16, Both Except (A) the North 10
Feet and (B) Part in Explanatory Plan 7029, Block 40, District Lot
184, Plan 178 to create a single parcel.
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 470769M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 28
3. Provision of a Statutory Right of Way (SRW) for public pedestrian
use of an expanded sidewalk over the area of the site adjacent to
the south property line to give an overall distance of 5.5 m (18 ft.)
from the existing back of curb. The SRW is to be free of any
encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door-swings, planters and
benches at-grade but the SRW agreement will accommodate
underground parking Levels P1 & P2 and minor portions of
building levels 2 to the roof within the SRW area.
Note to Applicant: The face of the brick columns, door-swings
(no more than 1’-0” over the SRW line) and portable planters are
shown within the SRW area and must be removed.
4. Provision of a shared use loading agreement between commercial
and residential uses for the Class B loading space.
Note to Applicant: The parking on the east side of Lakewood Drive
will be removed and will not be available for residential loading
activity.
5. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands based on the Fire Underwriters Survey
document water supply for public protection to determine if
water main upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100 per
cent of any water system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current application
lacks the details to determine if sewer main upgrading is
required. Please supply project details including floor area,
projected fixture counts and other details as required by
the City Engineer to determine if sewer system upgrading
is required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 29
developer is responsible for 100 per cent of any sewer
system upgrading that may be required.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work. Note: as-constructed
documentation will be required that includes photographic
and measured evidence of the installed number of
conduits, their final locations and depths.
(iv) Provision of 1.53 m (5’-0”) exposed aggregate front
boulevard, 0.31m (1’0”) hardscape building strip, and light
broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk between the front
boulevard and building strip on East Hastings Street
frontage.
(v) Provision of a 2.5 m wide raised protected bike lane
adjacent to Lakewood Drive frontage, with 1.53 m (5’-0”)
sod grass front boulevard with trees, 1.83 m (6’-0”) light
broom finish saw cut concrete sidewalk, and landscaped
back boulevard to property line including adjustments to all
existing infrastructure to allow for the installation of the bike
facility. City to provide geometric design for construction.
(vi) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing including
new curb returns and curb ramps on both sides of the lane
entry located north of Hastings Street on the east side of
Lakewood Drive as per City standard.
(vii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(viii) Provision of signal modifications including countdown
timers, LED intersection lighting and an accessible
pedestrian signal at the intersection of E Hastings Street
and Lakewood Drive.
6. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 30
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with BC
Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Affordable Housing
7. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement and Section 219
Covenant securing all residential units as for-profit affordable
housing units for the longer of 60 years and life of the building,
subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial
monthly rents for each rental unit, when the Housing
Agreement is entered into and again prior to development
permit issuance;
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each unit
type will be at or below the following rents subject to
adjustment as contemplated by Section 3.1B(c) of the
Vancouver Development Cost Levy-By-law:
Unit Type 2109 East Hastings Street Proposed
Average Starting Rents
Studio units $1,496
1-bedroom $1,730
2-bedroom $2,505
3-bedroom $3,365
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successor in
function) and the Director of Legal Services, that reflects
the agreed initial monthly rents as of occupancy in order to
address potential changes in unit mix and/or sizes
between the rezoning and development permit issuance,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 31
and to allow for the rents to be increased annually from the
time of the Public Hearing to initial occupancy, as per the
maximum increases authorized by Section 3.1B(c) of the
Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law; and
(vii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services (or successor in
function) and the Director of Legal Services may in their
sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Section 219 Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be
entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to
section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
10. As if applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services
deems appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be
drawn, not only as personal covenants of the property
owners, but also as covenants pursuant to Section 219 of
the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject site as are considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 32
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-law.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, and letters of credit, and provide for
the withholding of permits, as deemed appropriate by, and in the form and
content satisfactory to, the Director of Legal Services.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning of 2109 East Hastings Street
and the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2109 East Hastings
Street”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing Agreement has
been agreed to and signed by the applicant and its mortgagee(s) and prior to
enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by the above-noted report.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for
this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2109 East Hastings Street”, be
approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C
of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
2109 East Hastings Street”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02914)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 33
4. REZONING: 1619-1651 East Broadway
An application by IBI Group was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1619-1651 East Broadway from RM-4N (Multiple Dwelling) District
to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of
a 10-storey mixed-use building consisting of commercial use at grade and
85 residential units above, comprised of a mixed-tenure of secured market
rental and strata-titled housing. A height of 33.2 m (109 ft.) and a floor space
ratio (FSR) of 4.0 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Tony Wai, IBI Group responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 2 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 5 pieces of correspondence opposed to the application.
Speakers
Acting Mayor Louie called for speakers and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 7:14 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 34
Council Decision
MOVED by Acting Mayor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
A. THAT the application by IBI Group Architects, on behalf of Jameson
Development Corp. and 0923172 B.C. Ltd., the registered owners, to rezone:
• 1619 East Broadway [Lots 9 and 10, both of Lot 2, West 1/2 of Block D of
Block 154, District Lot 264A, Plans 1680 and 1771; PIDs: 014-472-635 and
014-472-643 respectively]; and
• 1651 East Broadway [The West 30 feet of Lot 7 and Lot 8, both of Lot 2,
West 1/2 of Block D of Block 154, District Lot 264A, Plans 1680 and 1771;
PIDs: 014-472-651 and 014-472-627 respectively],
from RM-4N (Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to permit a 10-storey mixed-use building consisting of commercial use
at grade and 85 residential units above, comprised of a mixed-tenure of secured
market rental and strata-titled housing, at a maximum floor space ratio (FSR)
of 4.0 and height of 33.2 m (109 ft.), generally as presented in Appendix A
of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1619-1651 East Broadway”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by IBI Group Architects and stamped
“Received City of Vancouver, May 4, 2017”, subject to the following
conditions, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to ensure all dwelling units meet the
minimum dwelling unit area set out in Section 10 of the Zoning
and Development By-law.
Note to Applicant: Strata dwelling units must have a minimum area
of 37 m2. Rental units less than 37 m2 may be considered, if the
unit’s design and location provides satisfactory living
accommodation. Under no circumstance can a rental unit be
smaller than 29.7 m2. Dwelling unit area is taken from the interior
of the demising walls, paint to paint. Enclosed balcony and
storage room areas do not count in the total unit area.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 35
2. Design development to improve the livability of all units.
Note to Applicant: This can be accomplished through:
(i) Eliminating units on levels 2 and 3 whose sole outlook is to
the internal property lines. In both the existing context and
the future development scenarios, these units do not meet
a satisfactory livability standard.
(ii) Provision of an operable exterior window to all sleeping
areas.
(iii) Confirming, where a bedroom is inboard of an enclosed
balcony, the enclosed balconies’ internal wall is clear
glazing with an operable window.
(iv) Limiting the number of balconies, enclosed and open, to
one per unit. Corner units are permitted two open
balconies, one per exposure, to allow for natural
ventilation.
(v) Provision of high and low operable windows for all south
facing units, to allow for natural ventilation and passive
cooling.
3. Provision of viable, flexible commercial area at grade.
Note to Applicant: Staff are seeking commercial at grade that can
accommodate a large variety of retail use, with adequate depth for
back-of-house functions. This can be accomplished through:
(i) Increasing the commercial floor area by extending the first
storey building mass to the eastern property line.
(ii) Relocation of service rooms and commercial parking below
grade to allow for additional commercial area at grade.
4. Design development to align the entry lobby with the neighbour to
create a cohesive street interface.
5. Provision of an indoor amenity area with an associated outdoor
amenity area with adequate area to support the large number of
residents.
Note to Applicant: The amenity area should be a minimum of
1,000 sq. ft. and equipped with a bathroom and kitchenette.
6. Design development to ensure all storage areas meet the
requirements set out in the Bulk Storage and In-suite Storage
Administrative Bulletin
(http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/bulletin/b004.pdf)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 36
7. Design development to ensure all enclosed balconies meet the
requirements set out in the Balcony Enclosure for New Buildings
Administrative Bulletin
(http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/BULLETIN/B005.pdf)
8. Provision of a vertical ventilation shaft that can exhaust air from
the ground floor commercial retail units through the highest roof,
for every 75 ft. of linear storefront facing E Broadway.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
9. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Sustainability
10. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7,
2017), including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions
Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero
emissions standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or
Low Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low
Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Landscape
11. Design development to the second floor amenity deck and
structural, as follows:
(i) Substantial increase in area dedicated to intensive green
roof to accommodate larger soil volumes, trees and
layered planting (large expanses of paving can contribute
to heat island effect and a lost opportunity to better
manage rainwater through the landscape treatment);
(ii) Addition of continuous permanent planters nearer to the
lane edge to present a greener interface to the north;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 37
(iii) Larger area dedicated to children’s play balanced with a
reduction in area noted as “gathering”; and
(iv) Increase in the amount of urban agriculture plots by using
a standard rectangular, raised plot design with universally
accessible maneuvering space in between the plots.
12. Integration of grades, retaining walls, walkways and structural
design with the architecture to ensure adequate soil volumes.
Note to Applicant: Soil depths should exceed BCLNA Landscape
Standard. To avoid raised planters above grade, at the perimeter
of the building angle the corner of the underground slab downward
(1 m across and 1.2 m) to maximize contiguous soil volumes.
Wherever possible, planted landscapes on slab should be
designed to maximize soil depths.
13. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking
garage vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and public
realm.
14. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections
(minimum 1/4 in. scale) through common open spaces,
semi-private patio areas and the public realm.
Note to Applicant: In tree areas, the sections should illustrate the
slab design and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy
and any associated landscaping. For private patios and amenity
areas, illustrate and dimension planters on slab, planter sizes
(inside dimension), soil, root ball, retaining walls, steps, patios and
portions of the adjacent building, such as residential units or
amenity rooms.
15. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: The plans should be at a minimum 1/8”:1 ft.
scale. The plant list should include the common and botanical
name, size and quantity of all existing/proposed plant material.
Plant material should be clearly illustrated on the plan and keyed
to the Plant List. The landscape plan should include the public
realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed street
trees, adjoining walkways, surface materials, PMT/Vista
transformers and public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles,
fire hydrants.
16. Provision of plan details and documentation/calculations that
support achievement of LEED storm water credit(s) and integrated
rainwater management, including absorbent landscapes, soil
volumes and detention systems.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 38
Note to Applicant: Landscape related solutions and detention
systems should be shown on the plan. The LEED consultant
should provide detailed calculations to describe how the various
best management practices contributed to the quality and quantity
targets.
17. Provision of a “Tree Management Plan”.
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management
plan become the primary document for tree removal/ protection
related matters. The landscape architectural tree management
plan provides useful information with regard to important cross
sections and other landscape design elements. While both
documents should be made consistent and submitted at large
scale with the revised submission package, the landscape
architects version should change its title label to differentiate it
from the arborist tree plan.
18. Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include
signatures by the owner, contractor and arborist.
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties are
aware of the roles and responsibilities and that the project is on
track to satisfy the steps and recommendations outlined by the
arborist. For example, advanced planning will be needed to
ensure that certain works, such as site supervision checkpoints,
are coordinated.
19. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the development
permit plans and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building
permit. Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering (604-871-
6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board (604-257-
8587) for tree species selection and planting requirements.
Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final spacing, quantity
and tree species to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services. New trees must be of good standard,
minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved root barriers,
tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8 ft. long
and 18 inches in. Planting depth of root ball must be below
sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection after tree planting
completion.”
20. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose
bibs for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: Hose bibs are requested to encourage patio
gardening and hand watering in amenity decks. Any limitations to
the installation of hose bibs on private decks should be brought to
the attention of staff in the written response.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 39
21. Provision of an outdoor Lighting Plan.
Note to Applicant: Consider “CPTED” principles and avoid any
lighting that can cause glare to residential uses.
Housing
22. Provide a completed Tenant Relocation Application Form which
includes a list outlining the name of each tenant, the number of
the tenant’s unit, the size of unit, the type of unit, and their rent, as
per Section 6.1(a) of the Tenant Relocation and Protection
Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted at
the time of development permit application.
23. Provide a letter stating the property address and legal description
of the site, and providing the names and mailing addresses of all
tenants.
24. Provide a notarized declaration, prior to issuance of a
development permit which demonstrates that each tenant has
been given written notice of the intent to redevelop the property;
that indicates the number of units occupied on the date of the
notice; includes information on posting of notice regarding the
intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and includes copies of a
letter addressed to each tenant summarizing the Tenant
Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each tenant.
25. Provide a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior to
issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the names of
tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for alternate
accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value given to
each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other compensation); and
includes a summary of all communication provided to the tenants.
26. Prior to development permit issuance, revised drawings and
information shall be submitted to the satisfaction of the Director of
Planning, clearly indicating the proposed total unit mix of 10 studio
(11.2%), 47 one-bedroom (52.8%), 22 two-bedroom (24.7%) and
10 three-bedroom (10.6%) units, and in accordance with the
Family Room: Housing Mix Policy for Rezoning Projects, ensure a
minimum 25% two-bedroom units and a minimum 10% three-
bedroom units for all strata-titled residential units, and a minimum
35% two-bedroom units or more for all secured market rental
residential units, in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in unit mix from the proposed
rezoning application may be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it
does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to be
suitable for families with children.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 40
27. The building is to comply with the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity
room with kitchenette (and an accessible washroom adjacent to
this amenity room).
28. Design development is needed to the common outdoor amenity
area on level 2 to include planters, which would be suitable for
urban agricultural activity by residents and to include the
necessary supporting infrastructure to support such activity by
residents (yard waste composter, a potting bench, tool storage
closet or chest, irrigation system / hose bib).
29. A common outdoor amenity area is to be provided which includes
an area suitable for a range of children’s play activity.
Note to Applicant: Play equipment is not required for the children′s
play area but a soft surface play area and creative landscape/play
features (such as balancing logs and boulders, sandbox, a
small/tangible water stream or feature, creative motor-skills
developing features, etc.) which provide a myriad of creative play
opportunities for a range of ages is encouraged.
30. Prior to issuance of development permit, applicant to display a
sign on the site, throughout construction, that acknowledges that
secured market rental housing is being provided as part of the City
of Vancouver’s initiatives. Sign design, format, and location to be
approved by the City.
Engineering
31. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal
or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
32. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 41
33. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
34. Clarify residential garbage pick-up operations. The current design
appears to rely on use of the 10% portion of the parking ramp to
access the compactor. Confirmation that the pick-up operation can
be achieved safely using the ramp in this manner. Reconfiguration
is recommended such that a 5% maximum grade for pick up
operations/vehicle manoeuvering is achieved.
35. Provide improved access to the commercial garbage room;
confirm door size and access to and from the pickup point without
reliance on use of public property.
36. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room and note on plans.
37. Provision of a plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the
use of the parking ramp, if required.
38. Provide grid lines on drawings for reference.
39. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Show all columns and note the column dimensions on
drawings.
(ii) Dimension all parking spaces.
Note to Applicant: Provide additional stall width for stalls
adjacent to walls and dimension on drawings.
(iii) Provide the slopes and crossfall within the parkade.
Note to Applicant: Additional design elevations are required
within the parkade to calculate slopes and crossfall. Slope
and crossfall to be shown on drawings.
(iv) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, and
at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: Where there is a curved ramp, provide
grades 2 ft. from the wall on the inside radius. The slope
and length of the ramp sections must be shown on the
submitted drawings.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 42
(v) Provision of a section drawing showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and
through the loading bay.
Note to Applicant: Ensure adequate vertical clearance is
provided, including utilities, mechanical projections, and
other services throughout the parkade.
(vi) Clearly note on the plans the required 2.3 m of vertical
clearance for access and maneuvering to all disability
spaces.
(vii) Provision of independent access to the Mechanical and
Electrical Rooms on Level P1 that does not rely upon the
Bike Room for access.
(viii) Provision of internal access from the Commercial parking
to the Commercial units that does not require walking in
the lane.
40. Provision of Class B loading spaces to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. The following must be
addressed:
(i) Provision of improved loading access from the Class B
loading spaces to the CRUs and the elevator core.
(ii) Provision of stair-free internal access from all loading
spaces to the elevator that does not rely upon the lane or
maneuvering aisles.
(iii) Provision of a minimum 1.2 m (4’-0”) wide loading dock
behind the loading spaces to facilitate goods
loading/unloading.
Note to Applicant: Consider flipping the loading spaces so
that trucks enter from Woodland Dr and/or consider
moving the loading spaces to the west property line so that
loading spaces are perpendicular to the lane. Refer to the
Parking and Loading Design Guidelines for required aisle
widths and throat widths.
(iv) Update the landscape plan with the following note: “The
off-site works are “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and a
copy of this plan is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property. No
work on public property may begin until such plans receive
“For Construction” approval and related permits are issued.
Please contact Engineering, Development Services and/or
your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 43
(v) Provision of an updated landscape plan that reflects the
improvements sought for this rezoning. Please submit a
copy of the landscape directly to Engineering Services for
review.
(vi) Provision of a reasonable commercial effort to seek
removal of a portion of the decorative metal fence and
small concrete upstand that is located on the lot
immediately to the east preventing the creation of a more
continuous walkway in both properties setback areas at
grade. Should this request be agreed to by the neighbour
then please delete what appears to be hedging along the
eastern property line where it extends into the SRW
setback.
Note to Applicant: The easterly side of the building shown
on the north elevation (Page 23) appears to have been
drawn incorrectly as the setbacks from the east property
line do not agree with those shown on the plan views.
Note to PC: Applicant is showing one large bike room on
Level P1. Confirm if separate bike rooms are required for
the Residential (Market) and Residential (Secured) and
that the bicycle room meets the requirements of Section 6
(6.3.5).
Note to PC: Is a security gate required in the parkade
separating the Residential (Market) and Residential
(Secured) parking.
41. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver
Parking By-law.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, the General Manager of Arts,
Culture, and Community Services, and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 8, 9, 10, and the West 30 Feet of Lot 7, all of
Lot 2, West ½ of Block D of Block 154, District Lots 264A, Plans
1680 and 1771 to create a single parcel.
2. Provision of a building setback and surface statutory right of way
(SRW) for public pedestrian use over a portion of the site,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 44
adjacent to East Broadway to achieve a 5.5 m offset distance from
the back of the existing curb to the building face. A survey plan
prepared by a British Columbia Land Surveyor showing the
existing dimension from the back of the City curb to the existing
property line to determine the final setback and SRW width is
required. The SRW will be free of any encumbrance such as
structure, stairs, door swing and plantings at grade and is to
accommodate the proposed underground parking structure within
the SRW agreement.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Upgrading and regrading of approximately 150 m of
250 mm sanitary sewer on 6th Avenue from Keith Drive to
Glen Drive.
(iii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work. Note: As-constructed
documentation will be required that includes photographic
and measured evidence of the installed number of
conduits, their final locations and depths.
(iv) Provision of new CIP sidewalk and exposed aggregate
utility strip in keeping with area standards. Delete
reference to nonstandard treatments and show a
continuation of the sidewalk pattern that exists immediately
east of the site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 45
(v) Provision of upgraded street lighting on the site frontage to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(vi) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
(vii) Provision of adjusted parking regulatory signage on E
Broadway adjacent the site should it be necessary.
4. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that
meet the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Watercourse
By-law. The plan shall achieve the following objectives:
(i) Retain or infiltration of 50% of the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
(ii) Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) onsite;
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 2014 IDF-10 year storm
event rate; and
(iv) The post development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure on-going
operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater management
and green infrastructure systems.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with BC
Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 46
Housing
6. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services to enter into a Housing Agreement and Section 219
Covenant securing the residential units comprised of a minimum
of 50% of the total residential floor area, as secured market rental
housing for the longer of 60 years or the life of the building,
subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) a no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) a no stratification covenant;
(iii) that none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) compliance with the City approved Tenant Relocation Plan,
including provision of a final Tenant Relocation Report prior
to issuance of the occupancy permit; and
(v) such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by both a
Section 219 Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be entered
into by the City, by by-law, enacted pursuant to section 565.2
of the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
7. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 47
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been issued to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
8. Pay to the City a contribution of $3,000,000, which the applicant
has offered to the City. Payment is to be made prior to enactment
of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The
$3,000,000 contribution is to be allocated to support delivery of
the Grandview-Woodland Community Plan Public Benefits
Strategy.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only
as personal covenants of the property owners, but also as
registerable charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject site as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and
otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment
of the By-law and at no cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning of
1619-1651 East Broadway, and the Housing Agreement described
in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated April 17, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1619-1651 East Broadway”, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law
for enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed
by the applicant and its mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the
CD-1 By-law contemplated by the above-noted report.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for
this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1619-1651 East Broadway”, be
approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment
to the Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated April 17, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1619-1651 East
Broadway”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 22, 2018 48
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02915)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 7:22 pm.
* * * * *