REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MAY 16, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was
held on Wednesday, May 16, 2018, at 9:35 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Andrea Reimer, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball, Vice-Chair
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council adopt Item 4 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote.)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 2
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the order of the agenda be varied to deal with Item 2 as the first order of business,
and Item 1 at 2:00 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Mayor Robertson absent for vote.)
Note: For clarity the minutes are recorded in chronological order
* * * * *
2. Presentation – Greenest City
Staff from Engineering Services and Planning, Urban Design, and Sustainability presented
updates on Zero Waste 2040, Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy and Green Demolition.
The Committee heard from 25 speakers in general support of the above initiatives. Four of
those speakers also expressed opposition to specific aspects outlined in the reports.
* * * * *
At 12:01 pm, during the hearing of speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
The Committee recessed at 12:03 pm and reconvened at 12:47 pm to continue hearing from
speakers on Item 2. At 2:00 pm, the Committee began Item 1.
* * * * *
1. Transportation
a. Director of Transportation Update
The Director of Transportation provided an update on transportation data, policy and planning,
as well as ongoing transportation projects and, along with the General Manager of Engineering
Services and staff from the Transportation Planning Branch, responded to questions.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 3
b. Millennium Line Broadway Extension of SkyTrain - Municipal Requirements
April 27, 2018
Staff from Engineering Services presented an update on the Millennium Line Broadway
Extension Municipal Requirements, Regional Harmonization of Truck Policies, and Parking
Strategy and Access Improvements for Mount Pleasant, and responded to questions.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the Millennium Line Broadway Extension.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council endorse the Millennium Line Broadway Extension (MLBE), a
primarily tunnelled SkyTrain extension under Broadway from VCC-Clark to
Arbutus Street, as a key element in helping the City achieve its liveability,
transportation and environmental objectives.
B. THAT, subject to approval of E and F below, Council authorize the granting of
access to City streets and certain City properties to the MLBE project owner or its
delegate (the “Project Owner”) on terms and conditions consistent with those
granted for previous rapid transit projects with such additional or modified terms
and conditions as may be required to reflect legal, geographical, and project type
differences.
C. THAT the terms and conditions of access to City streets and certain City
properties will be consistent with, and informed by, the following principles,
strategies and processes, all of which will be to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services, the General Manager of Real Estate and
Facilities Management, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design &
Sustainability, the General Manager of Development, Building and Licensing and
the Director of Legal Services (the “Authorized City General Managers”):
i. The Station Design and Urban Integration Principles generally in
accordance with Appendix A (the “Principles”), of the Policy Report
dated April 27, 2018, entitled “Millennium Line Broadway Extension of
SkyTrain – Municipal Requirements”;
ii. The Construction Impact Mitigation Strategies generally in accordance
with Appendix B (the “Strategies”), of the Policy Report dated
April 27, 2018, entitled “Millennium Line Broadway Extension of
SkyTrain – Municipal Requirements”; and
iii. A Design Advisory Process (“DAP”) and Construction Approval
Process (“CAP”) to be developed by City staff and the Project Owner;
all of which will be consistent with, and informed by, best practices and lessons
learned from past rapid transit projects and station upgrades.
D. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Noise Control By-law to
authorize the Chief License Inspector to approve an exception from the Noise

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 4
Control By-law for a period greater than 60 days, provided that an acceptable
noise mitigation strategy is in place and that Council instruct the Director of Legal
Services to bring forward for enactment an amendment to the Noise Control
By-law generally in accordance with Appendix D, of the Policy Report dated
April 27, 2018, entitled “Millennium Line Broadway Extension of SkyTrain –
Municipal Requirements”.
E. THAT the terms and conditions of access to City streets and certain City
properties be documented in a written agreement with the Project Owner (the
“Municipal Master Agreement”) to be negotiated on behalf of Council by City
staff, which terms and conditions will generally be consistent with the Principles,
Strategies, DAP and CAP, and all of which will be to the satisfaction of the
Authorized City General Managers.
F. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created or arise by virtue of Council’s
approval of A, B, C and E above, unless and until the Municipal Master
Agreement has been executed and delivered by the Authorized City General
Managers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02882)
c. Regional Harmonization of Truck Policies and By-laws
April 12, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law
to harmonize it with the British Columbia Commercial Transport Regulations, as
outlined in the Policy Report dated April 12, 2018, entitled “Regional
Harmonization of Truck Policies and By-laws”, and generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the aforementioned Policy Report.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment an amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A, of the
Policy Report dated April 12, 2018, entitled “Regional Harmonization of Truck
Policies and By-laws”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02883)
d. Mount Pleasant Industrial Area Parking Strategy and Access Improvements
April 23, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Parking Strategy for the Mount Pleasant Industrial
(MPI) area as outlined in the Policy Report dated April 23, 2018, entitled “Mount
Pleasant Industrial Area Parking Strategy and Access Improvements”, including

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 5
the introduction of a new parking Payment-In-Lieu (PIL) area in the MPI I-1, I-1A,
and I-1B zoning to address future parking needs from increased employment.
B. THAT Council direct the Director of Legal services to prepare the necessary
Parking By-Law changes to implement a PIL area in the MPI I-1, I-1A, and I-1B
zoning, in coordination with the planned 2018 Parking By-Law updates.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02884)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 3:23 pm and reconvened at 3:47 pm, and continued with Item 2.
* * * * *
2. Presentation – Greenest City (continued)
a. Zero Waste 2040
April 20, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council adopt Zero Waste 2040, as outlined in Appendix A, of the Policy
Report dated April 20, 2018, entitled “Zero Waste 2040”, as a strategic policy
framework to guide future decisions regarding the management of solid waste
from Vancouver.
B. THAT Council direct staff to develop interim milestones and plans, supported by
business case analysis and viable financial strategy, for implementing Zero
Waste 2040, and seek Council approval of programs and projects that require
policy change and/or financial commitment that cannot be accommodated in
current approved operating and capital budgets.
C. THAT the General Manager of Engineering Services, in consultation with the
Director of Legal Services and Director of Corporate Communications be
authorized to enter into a three (3) year partnership agreement with Metro
Vancouver Regional District (on behalf of the National Zero Waste Council) for
the Love Food Hate Waste (LFHW) Canada Campaign.
D. THAT Council direct staff to circulate Zero Waste 2040 to the British Columbia
Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change Strategy and Metro Vancouver
Regional District and take steps to engage those governments as partners in the
implementation of the plan.
E. THAT Council direct staff to develop a Green Operations Zero Waste Plan for
City operations, building on the success of the City’s existing corporate solid
waste diversion program, with scope including zero waste meetings, zero waste

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 6
and reduced consumption procurement, and waste minimization for all
operations, programs and projects.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion be amended by adding the following as F:
F. THAT Council direct staff to consider and provide analysis on the impact Zero
Waste 2040 will have on affordability in the city of Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT staff report back with analysis of both short-term and long-term
financial impacts on city of Vancouver businesses and residents, with particular attention
to any financial ramifications the Zero Waste 2040 will have for low-income Vancouver
residents.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the amendment be amended by replacing the words “direct staff” with the
words “affirms staff’s commitment”.
carried
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02886)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the motion be amended by adding the following as G at the end:
G. THAT Council direct staff to provide annual analysis on the impact of Zero Waste
2040 on waste levels, net carbon foot print and littering. Furthermore, that staff
report back with analysis and recommendations on adjusting Zero Waste 2040
initiatives based on impact data so as to ensure milestones are achieved.
not put
The Chair ruled the amendment out of order under section 4.3(c) of the Procedure By-law, as
the amendment contains direction already contained within the report being debated.
The amendment not being put, the motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.
02887)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 7
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council adopt Zero Waste 2040, as outlined in Appendix A, of the Policy
Report dated April 20, 2018, entitled “Zero Waste 2040”, as a strategic policy
framework to guide future decisions regarding the management of solid waste
from Vancouver.
B. THAT Council direct staff to develop interim milestones and plans, supported by
business case analysis and viable financial strategy, for implementing Zero
Waste 2040, and seek Council approval of programs and projects that require
policy change and/or financial commitment that cannot be accommodated in
current approved operating and capital budgets.
C. THAT the General Manager of Engineering Services, in consultation with the
Director of Legal Services and Director of Corporate Communications be
authorized to enter into a three (3) year partnership agreement with Metro
Vancouver Regional District (on behalf of the National Zero Waste Council) for
the Love Food Hate Waste (LFHW) Canada Campaign.
D. THAT Council direct staff to circulate Zero Waste 2040 to the British Columbia
Ministry of the Environment & Climate Change Strategy and Metro Vancouver
Regional District and take steps to engage those governments as partners in the
implementation of the plan.
E. THAT Council direct staff to develop a Green Operations Zero Waste Plan for
City operations, building on the success of the City’s existing corporate solid
waste diversion program, with scope including zero waste meetings, zero waste
and reduced consumption procurement, and waste minimization for all
operations, programs and projects.
F. THAT Council affirms staff’s commitment to consider and provide analysis on the
impact Zero Waste 2040 will have on affordability in the city of Vancouver.
FURTHER THAT staff report back with analysis of both short term and long term
financial impacts on city of Vancouver businesses and residents, with particular
attention to any financial ramifications the Zero Waste 2040 will have for low
income Vancouver residents.
b. Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy
May 1, 2018
The following motion contains changes to the original motion which were accepted by the
Committee.
The Committee agreed to sever the vote on the components of the motion.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 8
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy, as attached in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018 entitled “Single-Use Item
Reduction Strategy”, and direct staff to proceed with implementation.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
amendments to the License By-law (No. 4450) and Ticket Offense By-law
(No. 9360), generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 1, 2018 entitled “Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy”, prohibiting the
distribution of prepared foods in polystyrene foam cups and containers by
business license holders beginning June 1, 2019.
C. THAT Council direct staff to conduct a communications and engagement
campaign on the proposed by-law amendments referred to in B, of the Policy
Report dated May 1, 2018 entitled “Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy”, and
identify opportunities for the City to support affected businesses and other
organizations in the transition away from polystyrene foam cups and containers
including the option of providing funding for outreach to support the transition for
charitable food providers and small businesses.
D. THAT Council approve, in principle, a regulation prohibiting the distribution of
single-use plastic straws by business license holders beginning June 1, 2019
and:
i. Direct staff to consult with affected businesses, appropriate civic
agencies, persons with disabilities, community health groups, and other
organizations and report back by December 31, 2018, on a plastic straw
prohibition implementation plan; and
ii. Instruct the Director of Legal Services to prepare proposed License
By-law amendments to be included in the report back referred to in D (i)
of the Policy Report dated May 1, 2018 entitled “Single-Use Item
Reduction Strategy”.
E. THAT Council direct staff to consult business license holders on proposed by-law
requirements for plastic and paper bags and disposable cups referred to in the
Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
May 1, 2018 entitled “Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy”, and bring forward
by-law changes as part of the annual Solid Waste Rate Report in late 2018;
FURTHER THAT as part of the by-law changes brought forward, staff include a
requirement for compostable packaging (e.g. cups, bags, containers) used by
business license holders to be approved compostable, which indicates that it has
been tested and approved at a local commercial compost facility, and a minimum
40% post-consumer content for paper-based packaging; and
FURTHER THAT staff issue a Request for Expressions of Interest for “Made in
Vancouver” single-use item solutions such as a city mug program and reusable
straws.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 9
F. THAT the City set annual reduction targets expected to be met as a result of the
proposed by-law requirements for plastic and paper bags and disposable cups by
January 2019;
FURTHER THAT if these reduction targets are not being consistently met by
2021, the City implements a full distribution ban on single-use plastic bags and
single-use cups.
G. THAT Council direct staff to investigate and report back on an increased
business license fee for large businesses in which distribution of single-use items
is pervasive.
H. THAT Council direct staff to circulate the Single-Use Item Reduction Strategy to
the Metro Vancouver Regional District, the British Columbia Ministry of
Environment and Climate Change Strategy, and Environment and Climate
Change Canada, and take steps to engage those governments as partners in the
implementation of the strategy.
CARRIED (Vote No.’s 02888, 02908, 02890, 02891, 02892, 02893, 02894, 02895)
(Councillor Ball opposed to B, G)
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner and De Genova opposed to F, G)
c. Green Demolition By-law Update
April 20, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive for information the Administrative Report dated
April 20, 2018, entitled “Green Demolition By-law Update”, regarding the results
of the City’s green demolition program to date.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Green Demolition
By-law No. 11023, generally in the form as set out in Schedule 1 of the
Administrative Report dated April 20, 2018, entitled “Green Demolition By-law
Update”, to expand the scope of the program to apply reuse and recycling
requirements to pre-1950 one- and two-family homes and to require
deconstruction for pre-1910 and heritage-registered one- and two-family homes,
all effective January 1, 2019;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Schedule 1, of the
above-noted Administrative Report.
C. THAT Council approve up to $250,000 in funding from the City’s 2018 Innovation
Fund to provide financial support for the establishment and operation of a locally
operated non-governmental deconstruction hub on terms and conditions that are
consistent with the Vancouver Charter and the City’s Procurement Policy, and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 10
that are to be documented in a contract to be negotiated by City staff (the
“Deconstruction Hub Contract”).
D. THAT the terms and conditions of the Deconstruction Hub Contract will include
requiring that the private operator of the Deconstruction Hub provide at least
matching external funds, as a condition of the release of the Innovation Funds,
and that all terms and conditions will be to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services.
E. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created or arise by virtue of Council’s
approval of C and D above, of the Administrative Report dated April 20, 2018,
entitled “Green Demolition By-law Update”, unless and until the Deconstruction
Hub Contract has been executed and delivered by the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02896)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 6:27 pm and reconvened at 7:13 pm.
* * * * *
3. Presentation – 2019-2022 Draft Capital Plan
Patrice Impey, General Manager, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, along with
Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management staff presented an update.
4. Contract Award for ITT PS20172554 Phase 3 NE Closure and Phase 4 LFG System
Expansion – Vancouver Landfill
April 16, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with M2K Construction
Ltd., for construction services for the Vancouver Landfill Phase 3 NE Closure and
Phase 4 LFG System Expansion, for an approximate term of two (2) years, with
an estimated contract value of $17,997,248.46, plus applicable taxes over the
two-year term, to be funded through the 2015-2018 Capital Plan;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and
General Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of
the City the contract contemplated by A above, of the Administrative Report dated
April 16, 2018, entitled “Contract Award for ITT PS20172554 Phase 3 NE Closure
and Phase 4 LFG System Expansion – Vancouver Landfill”.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 11
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in the Administrative Report dated April 16, 2018, entitled
“Contract Award for ITT PS20172554 Phase 3 NE Closure and Phase 4 LFG
System Expansion – Vancouver Landfill”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02904)
(Mayor Roberston absent for the vote.)
5. False Creek South Planning: Provisional Vision Statement and Guiding Planning
Principles
At the Regular Council meeting on May 15, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 16, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
The Committee heard from eight speakers in general support of the report.
MOVED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle the False Creek South Provisional Vision
Statement and Guiding Planning Principles as outlined in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated May 1, 2018, entitled “False Creek South Planning:
Provisional Vision Statement and Guiding Planning Principles”.
B. THAT detailed planning work in False Creek South generally be deferred until
greater clarity is reached on lease negotiations with leaseholders on City lands in
the community.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02897)
(Councillor Jang and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
6. Theatre Rental Grant Allocations – Fall 2018 and Spring 2019
At the Regular Council meeting on May 15, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 16, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
Arts, Culture and Community Services staff reviewed the report.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the report.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 12
MOVED by Councillor Ball
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve re-allocation of unused/underused Theatre Rental Grants
from January-August 2018 totalling $149,995 that were approved in RTS11804;
source of funds is the 2018 Theatre Rental Grant budget.
B. THAT Council approve Theatre Rental Grants to 38 organizations totalling
$1,047,275 as listed in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated April 18,
2018, entitled “Theatre Rental Grant Allocations – Fall 2018 and Spring 2019”, for
use of the Civic Theatres from September 1 to December 31, 2018; source of
funds is the remaining balance in the 2018 Theatre Rental Grant budget.
C. THAT Council approve, in advance of the 2019 Operating Budget, Theatre Rental
Grants to 44 organizations for Civic Theatre uses from January 1, to
August 31, 2019, totalling $1,749,055 as listed in Appendix B of the
Administrative Report dated April 18, 2018, titled “Theatre Rental Grant
Allocations – Fall 2018 and Spring 2019”; source of funds to be the 2019 Theatre
Rental Grants budget.
D. THAT City Council direct senior staff to meet with the Vancouver Symphony
Orchestra (VSO) to discuss their 100th anniversary associated events and to
identify any future funding needs and report back to Council with any
recommendations.
E. THAT the Mayor write a letter of support for any funding requests submitted by
the VSO to senior levels of government, including the BC Arts Council and
Canada Council for the Arts, in support of the VSO’s 100th anniversary
celebration events.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02898)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 9:00 pm and reconvened at 9:07 pm.
* * * * *
7. 2018 Cultural Grant Allocations (Infrastructure, Community Arts, Arts Capacity,
Host Your Own Engagement)
At the Regular Council meeting on May 15, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 16, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in general support.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 13
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve a total of $1,056,800 in Cultural Infrastructure Grants to
28 organizations as listed in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated April
17, 2018, entitled “2018 Cultural Grant Allocations (Infrastructure, Community
Arts, Arts Capacity, Host Your Own Engagement)”: source of funds to be the
2018 Capital Budget – Cultural Infrastructure Grants.
B. THAT Council approve a total of $436,768 in Community Arts grants to 91
organizations as listed in Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “2018 Cultural Grant Allocations (Infrastructure,
Community Arts, Arts Capacity, Host Your Own Engagement)”; source of funds to
be the 2018 Cultural Grants Operating Budget ($418,768), the 150+ Legacy
Innovations Fund ($10,000) and the 2018 Public Art Capital Budget (Community
Arts) ($8,000).
C. THAT Council approve a total of $70,000 in Arts Capacity grants to five
organizations as listed in Appendix C of the Administrative Report dated
April 17, 2018, entitled “2018 Cultural Grant Allocations (Infrastructure,
Community Arts, Arts Capacity, Host Your Own Engagement)”; source of funds to
be the 2018 Cultural Grants Operating budget.
D. THAT Council approve a total of $100,000 in one-time only Host Your Own
Engagement Grants in support of the Creative City Strategy public engagement
phase to 10 organizations as listed in Appendix D of the Administrative Report
dated April 17, 2018, entitled “2018 Cultural Grant Allocations (Infrastructure,
Community Arts, Arts Capacity, Host Your Own Engagement)”; source of funds to
be the 2018 Cultural Grants Operating budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02899)
(Councillors De Genova, Jang and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
8. Additional Requirements to the City of Vancouver Medical-Marijuana Related
Businesses Licensing Process to Deter Organized Crime
At the Regular Council meeting on May 15, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 16, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
The Committee heard from two speakers opposed to the motions.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 14
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The federal government has not yet finalized a legal framework for marijuana in
Canada and the federal government has delayed the announcement of the final
legal framework that was to be released on July 1, 2018;
2. June 2015, Council passed TEXT AMENDMENT: Regulation of Retail Dealers
Medical Marijuana-Related Uses;
3. The text amendment to the zoning by-law to allow Marijuana related businesses
may have to be changed when federal and provincial regulations are announced;
4. The only legal avenue for an individual to obtain medical marijuana is to receive
a prescription from a doctor with an exact dosage, register with a licensed
producer (approved by Health Canada), place an order online or via phone and
have it delivered directly to the person the cannabis was prescribed for;
5. The majority, if not all, retail stores licensed by the City of Vancouver MMRU, as
well as those open without a license, do not obtain their supply from Licensed
Producers regulated by Health Canada;
6. Currently, the City requires applicants for Marijuana-Related businesses to meet
many requirements, including locations that are at least 300 meters from schools,
community centres, neighbourhood houses, youth facilities that serve vulnerable
youth and other marijuana related businesses;
7. The City of Vancouver website states that regulations aim to achieve a careful
balance between ensuring community health, safety, security aesthetics, equity
and enjoyment of property;
8. Currently police information checks are required for the applicant and all staff
(including directors and health professionals); however there is no requirement
for the applicant to conduct police information checks for suppliers and/or
growers;
9. There is currently no requirement in the City of Vancouver application or license
process for marijuana-related businesses that requires the business or
compassion club to be supplied with cannabis by only licensed producers,
approved by Health Canada;
10. Zoning and development by-law requirements for Marijuana-Related Businesses
listed on the City of Vancouver website do not require either medical marijuana
related retail dealers or compassion clubs to produce financial statements for
their business and the financial statements for their suppliers;
11. Marijuana-Related businesses must provide proof of lease or ownership of the
address they are applying to license as a Marijuana-Related business;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 15
12. There have been at least eight robberies of Marijuana-Related businesses in the
City of Vancouver;
13. Organized crime and gangs are known to participate in the sale of illegal drugs
and substances, including marijuana;
14. Allowing organized crime and/or gangs to participate in business in the City of
Vancouver could put public safety at risk, and could put strain on police
resources;
15. The City of Vancouver requires financial statements from organizations and
companies applying for several grants including but not limited to: Cultural
Infrastructure Grants, Public Art Community Grants, Childcare Enhancement
Grants, Community Arts Grants;
16. The Vancouver Police Department has a strong commitment to public safety and
have previously demonstrated they will not tolerate any activities related to
organized crime and gang violence;
17. City of Vancouver policy, zoning, licensing and by-laws that allow access to drug
traffickers, supplying controlled substances illegally could contribute to the
economic success of organized crime groups and/or gangs;
18. The City of Vancouver’s Deputy Chief License Inspector has previously made
decisions to revoke business licenses for reasons including criminal matters.
Council has previously upheld these decisions when brought forward as appeals,
pursuant to Section 275 of the Vancouver Charter that allows council
discretionary powers to uphold or overturn the decision of the Deputy Chief
License Inspector.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to change the requirements necessary for a Marijuana
Related Business to include annual audited financial statements that are
resubmitted and self-reported on an annual basis.
B. THAT Council require all marijuana-related businesses licensed by the City of
Vancouver to obtain marijuana only from Licensed Producers approved by Health
Canada.
C. THAT Council direct staff to work with the Vancouver Police Department and
particularly the Major Crime Section, to ensure that all City of Vancouver
Marijuana-Related Business applications and License requirements are
recommended with attention to deterring major crime that is directly or indirectly
related to any business where an illegal and controlled substance is sold.
D. THAT Council direct staff to share any information found on the correlation
between Marijuana Growers and Suppliers; and organized crime and gangs with
senior levels of government, as they continue to prepare a legal framework for
marijuana in Canada;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 16, 2018 16
FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council by July 2018 with any findings and
recommendations to strengthen requirements in licensing marijuana related
businesses in the interest of public safety.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Affleck
THAT Council refer this item to Regular Council for debate and discussion.
LOST (Vote No. 02900)
(Councillors Carr, Deal, Louie, Reimer, and Stevenson opposed)
(Councillors De Genova, Jang and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
REFERRAL moved by Councillor Affleck
THAT Council refer the motion back to staff as information.
LOST (Vote No. 02902)
(Councillors Carr, Deal, Louie, Reimer, and Stevenson opposed)
(Councillors De Genova, Jang and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
* * * * *
At 10:00 pm, during debate on Item 8, it was
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT under section 2.3(e) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee extends the meeting
for one hour or less.
LOST
NOT HAVING RECEIVED THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Bremner opposed)
(Mayor Robertson and Councillors De Genova and Jang absent for the vote)
Note: The unfinished business from the Standing Committee of May 16, 2018, will be
considered at the Regular Council meeting on June 5, 2018. The recommendations of the
Standing Committee from May 16, 2018, have not been formally adopted by Council. These
recommendations will also be considered by Council on June 5, 2018.
* * * * *
The Committee adjourned at 10:00 pm.
* * * * *