PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
MAY 15, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, May 22, 2018, at 6:06 pm, in the
Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor George Affleck
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to comply
with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be put to a vote and
failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development and Sign
By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillors Ball and De Genova absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 2
1. REZONING: 6829-6869 Cambie Street
An application by GBL Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 6829-6869 Cambie Street from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District
to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of
a six-storey residential building and four two-storey townhouses containing
65 market residential units. A height of 21.0 m (69 ft.) and a floor space ratio
(FSR) of 2.53 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Zak Bennett, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided brief opening comments on the
application.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public Hearing, and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:13 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by GBL Architects on behalf of Cambie Heights Homes Ltd.,
the registered owner, to rezone 6829-6869 Cambie Street [Lots 28-30, Block 896,
District Lot 526, Plan 10198; PIDs: 009-592-857, 009-592-865, and 009-592-881
respectively], from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.53 and
to increase the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 21.0 m (69 ft.), to permit the
development of a six-storey residential building and four two-storey townhouses,
containing a total of 65 market residential units, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6829-
6869 Cambie Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 3
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by GBL Architects, on behalf of Cambie Heights Homes Ltd.,
and received on March 3, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow
minor alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme
of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to the approval of Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning, who shall
have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce the building width to not exceed 150 ft.
Note to Applicant: This will require a reduction in the building of
approximately 7 ft. to comply with the maximum building width cited in the
Cambie Corridor Plan.
2. Design development to reduce the bulk and scale of the southeast corner of
the building to provide building massing that is more in keeping with the form
of development guidelines set out in the Cambie Corridor Plan.
Note to Applicant: A notable setback above the 4th storey is required;
consequently, a reduction in massing is needed to meet this requirement of
the Cambie Corridor Plan.
3. Design development to maintain the use of high quality materials at all
stages of the approval process, including the development application stage.
4. Design development to ensure that fire access to the townhouses is
compliant with building code.
Note to Applicant: The access to the rear buildings will need to be via
exterior walkways, and the design of the walkways will need to be adjusted
as required to comply with Article 3.2.5.5. of the Vancouver Building By-law,
including considerations for travel distance, hard surface, lighting, and
standpipe connections. Note that the proposed firefighter path of travel
through the garbage area and loading dock is not considered compliant due
to the potential for obstructions into the required path by vehicles and bins.
Note also that firefighter paths of travel must remain unencumbered by
locked gates, etc.—this will need to be demonstrated at building permit
application.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
5. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 4
Housing
6. Design development to meet the requirements in the Family Room: Housing
Mix Policy for Rezoning Projects (2016) which requires at least 10% of the
total dwelling units be three-bedroom units and at least 25% of the total
dwelling units must be two-bedroom units.
Note to Applicant: The application currently exceeds the policy
requirements, but further design development to meet the conditions of
approval may result in a revision of the unit count and mix. Ensure the
Family Room policy requirements are met at a minimum through the
development permit stage.
Landscape Design
7. Design development to provide a more conservative tree removal strategy
by enabling the safe retention and protection of minimum two trees: Trees
#1, #2. Tree #1 should be explored for possibility of relocation and
reintegration on site, while Tree #2 should be retained and protected in
place.
Note to Applicant: It is expected that all developments will adhere to
Council’s approved Urban Forest Canopy Strategy, by retaining a maximum
of viable trees while still allowing development. The two trees mentioned
above are healthy and at the edges of the site. Coordination should take
place between the architect and an ISA certified arborist with substantial
experience in protecting trees on development sites. A revised Arborist
Report should be provided to demonstrate safe tree retention and make
recommendations for methods of protection during construction. It is
understood that this may require revisions to the parkade.
8. Design development to enhance sustainability and maximize green space by
deleting the water feature at the ground floor and replacing it with planted
landscape.
9. Design development to demonstrate how substantial, robust planting will be
established and maintained in the planters integrated into the south, west,
and east building elevations.
Note to Applicant: As the planters are integral to the architectural
expression, more information is required to demonstrate their viability,
accessibility, and maintainability. Planters on the upper storeys are of
particular concern, due to further challenges with wind exposure.
10. Design development to improve the outdoor amenity and expand
programming by the following:
(i) Significantly increasing the amount of soft landscape;
(ii) Articulate with common uses such as children’s play, urban
agriculture, and passive seating opportunities; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 5
(iii) Include edible plants, in addition to urban agriculture.
Note to Applicant: Urban agriculture plots should follow the City’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and include infrastructure
required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc. Garden plots should be
wheelchair accessible.
11. Design development to clearly integrate sustainable rainwater management
features and strategies into the landscape plan.
12. Design development to mitigate privacy loss to adjacent properties at the
north and south side yards by the provision of more substantial buffering
planting beds.
13. Provision of consent from the Park Board for proposed tree removal on City
properties.
Note to Applicant: If consent is not received, then a revised form of
development enabling tree retention will be required.
14. A full Landscape Plan for the proposed landscape is to be submitted. The
Landscape Plan should be coordinated with the architectural Site Plan. The
Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials (with common
and botanical names, plant sizes, and quantities), paving, walls, railings,
light fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant material
should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan.
The Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should
match the architectural site plan.
15. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2"=1'-0" scale to illustrate typical
proposed landscape elements including planters on structures, benches,
fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and other features. Planter section
details should show dimensioned rootballs to confirm the depth of proposed
planting on structures is deep enough to accommodate rootballs of
proposed trees well into the future. The depth should exceed BCSLA
standard.
16. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for all planted
areas.
17. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape drawings;
all existing light poles should be shown.
18. Provision of high quality graphic readability by deleting grey tones to ensure
the plan reads well in black and white, or submission of colour plans only.
19. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any built
features intended to create a bird friendly design.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 6
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for examples
of built features that may be applicable, and provide a design rationale for
the features noted. For more information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Sustainability
20. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing buildings on site, to
recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition waste (excluding hazardous
materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of development
permit application.
21. Confirm that the building is on track to meet the requirements of the
preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended up to
January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63 points (LEED® Gold rating),
with 1 point for water efficiency and stormwater management and a 22%
reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with
registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be submitted as part
of the Development Permit that articulates which credits the applicant will be
pursuing and how their building application, as submitted, incorporates
strategies, features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated into the
drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional or
Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns with the
applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of registration of the CaGBC
must be provided with the application and the project registration number
incorporated into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
22. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 21, the applicant may
choose to meet the requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near
Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero
emissions standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Engineering
23. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire the
project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize street
use during excavation and construction (i.e. consideration to the building
design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware
that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or
slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already identified
project street use permissions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 7
24. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any
portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of way.
25. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual section
02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access around
existing and future utilities adjacent your site. Current construction practices
regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building permit
stage with final design achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent utilities prior
to building occupancy. Provision of written acknowledgement of this
condition is required. Please contact Engineering Services for details.
26. Delete specialty sidewalk treatments on public property and show standard
broom-finished sidewalks between the property line and back of City
sidewalk.
27. Provision of the required Class A bicycle spaces.
28. Please place the following statement on the landscape plan: “This plan is
“NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and related
permits are issued. Please contact Engineering, Development Services
and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
29. Please update the landscape and/or site plan to reflect the public realm
changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for this rezoning.
Where a design or detail is not available please make note of the
improvement on the site and/or landscape plans. Please submit a copy of
the updated plan to Engineering for review.
30. Provision of a ‘stairs free’ loading access route from the Class B loading
space to the elevator core and note on plans.
Note to Applicant: A stair is shown in the loading corridor from elevation
224.38 ft. to 225.33 ft.
31. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to the bicycle
room(s) and note on plans.
32. Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the use of the
parking ramp, if required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 8
33. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as follows:
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking ramp at
all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, additional elevations
within the parking levels and at all entrances.
(ii) Provision of minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp, security
gates, and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing elevations,
and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical clearance should be
noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for access and
maneuvering to all disability spaces. 3.5 m of vertical clearance is
required for Class B loading spaces and maneuvering.
(iii) Modify column placement to comply with the requirements of the
Engineering Parking and Loading Design Supplement as follows:
a. A column 2 ft. in length must be set back 2 ft. from either the
opening to or the end of the parking space. A column 3 ft.
long may be set back 1 ft.
b. Provide additional parking stall width for stalls adjacent to
walls or stalls with columns set back more than 4 ft. from the
end of the stall.
c. Provide a minimum 0.3 m (1 ft.) setback from the drive aisle
for all columns.
d. Dimension all columns encroaching into parking stalls.
e. Column encroachments into stalls must not exceed 0.15 m
(6 in.).
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
34. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the issuance of any
development permit, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
35. Design of the development must provide for Neighbourhood Energy System
(NES) compatibility and shall adhere to the following requirements:
(i) The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system shall be
designed to be easily connectable and compatible with
Neighbourhood Energy to supply all heating and domestic hot water
requirements. Design provisions related to NES compatibility must be
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
(the applicant shall refer to the Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity
Standards – Design Guidelines for general design requirements
related to NES compatibility).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 9
(ii) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air shall be
provided by hydronic systems without electric resistance heat or
distributed heat generating equipment (including but not limited to
gas fired make-up air heaters, heat producing fireplaces, distributed
heat pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to be utilized
for an energy transfer station connecting the building(s) to the City-
designated NES, as outlined in the Neighbourhood Energy
Connectivity Standards Design Guidelines, at development permit.
(iv) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical heating
system at the building permit stage must be to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
36. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition #35, the applicant may
choose, at time of Development Permit, to meet a greenhouse gas outcome
equivalent to connecting to a low-carbon neighbourhood energy system.
This equivalence must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Director of
Planning, and may include achieving a 50% GHG reduction from a high-
efficiency natural-gas scenario, achieving the GHG limits of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 2017), or a Certified
Passive House.
Note to Applicant: If following the greenhouse gas outcome equivalency
option, the applicant will be required at each stage of permit to submit
energy model results, for review by Sustainability, demonstrating that the
development is on track to achieve the above requirements and what must
be submitted.
37. An interconnected water service will be required for this site.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the General Manager
of Planning, Sustainability and Urban Design, the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense
of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 28-30, Block 896, District Lot 526, Plan 10198 to
create a single parcel.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site (collectively
called the “services”) such that they are designed, constructed and installed
at no cost to the City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way
for the services are provided. No development permit for the site will be
issued until the security for the services are provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 10
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow demands of
the project. The current application lacks the details to determine if
water main upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant
load, and domestic water demands to determine if water main
upgrading is required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services will be
required to secure payment for the upgrading, The developer is
responsible for 100% of any water system upgrading that may be
required.
(ii) Provision of new and separated storm and sanitary sewers in the
lane west of Cambie Street, from the sites service connection point
south to 54th Avenue, and then from the lane west of Cambie Street
on 54th Avenue and connecting to the Metro Vancouver main on
Cambie Street. The increased diameter of the sanitary and storm
sewers is to be determined through the detailed design process. The
sewer upgrading costs borne by this project may be reduced should
benefiting nearby development proceed concurrently with this
project, with the said reduction to be determined at the sole
discretion of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of 100% of funding to the satisfaction of General Manager
of Engineering Services for the future construction of protected bike
lanes on Cambie Street adjacent to the site, including any transition
areas adjacent to the site to connect existing and new curb
alignments. These improvements will generally include the following:
a. New concrete curb and gutter;
b. Raised protected bike lane;
c. Curb ramps;
d. Improved street lighting;
e. Additional pedestrian-scale lighting; and
f. A lighting study to determine the extent of upgraded street
and pedestrian lighting, and adjustment to all existing
infrastructure to accommodate the proposed street
improvements.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements are subject to
completion and adoption of the Cambie Corridor Public Realm Plan.
(iv) Provision of a minimum 1.83 m (6 ft.) wide CIP light broom finish
concrete sidewalk with saw cut joints on Cambie Street adjacent the
site.
(v) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space permits.
(vi) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are to
consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City
needs in a configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services and in conformance with applicable electrical

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 11
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations, and depths.
3. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest existing
suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be primary with
all electrical plant, which include but not limited to System Vista, Vista
switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC
Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing
overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the
existing overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with B.C. Hydro
that an area has been defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has been
allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.
Green Infrastructure
4. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that meets the
objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater Management Plan and
complies with the Sewer and Watercourse Bylaw. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
(i) Retain or infiltrate 50% of the six-month storm event volume (24 mm)
onsite;
(ii) Treat the six-month event (48 mm) onsite; and
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 2014 IDF-5 year storm event rate. The
pre-development estimate shall use the 2014 IDF curve whereas the
post development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure
the ongoing operation of certain stormwater storage, rainwater
management, and green infrastructure systems.
Environmental Contamination
5. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services (Environmental
Protection);

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 12
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a remediation
agreement for the remediation of the site and any contaminants
which have migrated from the site on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no occupancy of
any buildings or improvements on this site constructed pursuant to
this rezoning until separate Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the
Ministry of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
6. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $2,608,097, which the
applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be made prior to enactment
of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The $2,608,097 is to be
allocated as follows:
(i) $1,304,048 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to increase the
City’s affordable housing supply in and around the Cambie Corridor
Plan area;
(ii) $1,043,239 (40%) toward childcare and community facilities in and
around the Cambie Corridor Plan area;
(iii) $260,810 (10%) to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to enable
heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the
property owners, but also as registerable charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title Office,
with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting the subject
site as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to
the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law
and at no cost to the city.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including indemnities,
warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of permits, as
deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services.
The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate
city official having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 13
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Parking
By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6829-6869 Cambie Street”.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Subdivision
By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6829-6869 Cambie Street”.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any costs
incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of rezoning are at
the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not in
any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion,
regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such authority or
discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02879)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. REZONING: 8599 Oak Street
An application by NORR Architects Planners Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 8599 Oak Street from RM-3A (Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
six-storey residential building containing a total of 36 for-profit affordable
rental housing units. A height of 20.0 m (66 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR)
of 2.5 are proposed
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing Agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Beverley White, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the application and
responded to questions

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 14
Applicant Comments
Glen Burwell, NORR Architects Planners, Inc., responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
Two letters opposed to the application had been received since the application was referred to
Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application, expressing concerns with the loss of existing
affordable housing stock, the new rental rates, and tenant relocation:
Glen Berlow
Jean Swanson
Liam McClure, Vancouver Tenants Union
Craig Jorgensen, Generation Squeeze
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:55 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Mr. Burwell responded to speakers’ comments and questions from Council.
Staff Closing Comments
Susan Haid, Assistant Director of Planning, reviewed the application, responded to speakers
comments and, along with Ms. White and Brian Butt, Affordable Housing, Arts, Culture and
Community Services, responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by NORR Architects Planners Inc. on behalf of Maiway
Investment Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 8599 Oak Street [Lots 15 and 16,
except the east 7 feet now road, of Lot 33, Block B, District Lots 319, 323 and 324,
Plan 1685; PIDs:014-424-223 and 014-424-231 respectively] from RM-3A (Multiple
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the
floor space ratio (FSR) from 1.35 to 2.50 and to increase the height from 10.7 m
(35 ft.) to 20.0 m (66 ft.), to permit the development of a six-storey residential
building, containing a total of 36 for-profit affordable rental housing units, generally
as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018 entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 8599 Oak Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 15
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by NORR Architects Planners Inc., on behalf of Maiway
Investment Ltd., and received on December 12, 2017, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of development when approving
the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning who shall
have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to acknowledge the prominent corner location by
providing an enhanced architectural expression at the corner of Oak Street
and 70th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: Entrance to the building should reflect the hierarchy of the
streets, in particular the more pedestrian oriented 70th Avenue. This can be
achieved with entry location or an enhanced entry sequence from 70th
Avenue. Enhanced corner expression in terms of massing and pedestrian
pathway should be provided.
2. Design development to improve ground-oriented units at the street interface,
as follows:
(i) Unit entries and patios facing Oak Street should include robust
planting to allow delineation (as well as a green buffer) of the public
and private realm.
Note to Applicant: Ceiling height can be reduced at parking level 1
below the patios to ensure adequate soil volumes for robust planting.
(ii) At 70th Avenue interface, raised patio entry can be integrated with
building entry landing.
3. Design development to the building elevation as follows:
(i) Incorporate passive measures at the south facade.
(ii) Provide quality and durable exterior finishes, in particular, parking
access should be carefully detailed at the street interface.
4. Design development to enhance visual connection from amenity room to the
roof deck by providing additional windows facing the deck.
5. Design development to improve the livability of dwelling units by providing
closets in all bedrooms.
6. Design development to show transformer location.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 16
7. The proposed unit mix, providing 23 one-bedroom units, seven two-bedroom
units and six three-bedroom units, is to be included in the Development
permit drawings. The two and three bedroom units account for 36% of the
units.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning application
may only be varied under the discretion of the Director of Planning or
Development Permit Board provided that it does not go lower than 35% of
the dwelling units designed to be suitable for families with children.
8. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any built
features intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for examples
of built features that may be applicable, and provide a design rationale for
the features noted. For more information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
9. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
10. Provision of the following in regard to the tree retention strategy (applicable
to trees #643, OS #1,OS #2, OS #3):
(i) An addendum arborist report that confirms the arborist has reviewed
and concurs with the most recent architectural and landscape
drawings in terms of what was understood to be reasonable design
measures within known site conditions and acceptable tolerances to
impacts. Any above or below grade design conflicts must be brought
to the attention of the City and the applicant at earliest convenience
may be subject to further design development. Provide specific
recommendations that inform private and public realm landscape
design and methods for tree retention. Include any construction
limitations such as the location of construction storage materials,
temporary structures, utility conflicts, site access, development
phasing and temporary irrigation requirements.
(ii) Landscape plan revisions to be informed by a revised arborist report
with specific recommendations for optimal tree retention.
(iii) Reductions in the amount of re-landscape activity proposed within
the dripline of trees.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 17
Note to Applicant: All site disturbance associated with soft and
hardscaping in proximity to the trees should be relocated outside the
radial dripline, to the greatest extent practicable. There should be
none or very limited soil disturbance proposed in the dripline of tree
#643. Further comments may be outstanding at time of development
permit review.
(iv) Further coordination with City staff and the project arborist at the
development permit stage to protect tree roots associated with public
realm improvements.
Note to Applicant: This will require further attention by the landscape
architect and project arborist to anticipate and reduce unnecessary
root disturbances, wherever possible. Retention of the existing public
sidewalk/boulevard in the critical root zone may be necessary.
Coordination will be needed with Engineering, Planning and Park
Board (Urban Forestry) for the final public realm landscape design
submitted for development permit and construction phase.
(v) Accurate illustrations, notations, dimensions on the appropriate plans
and sections (engineer, architectural and landscape) to show all
proposed utility locations, limit of excavation, shoring and forming
methods, grading and re-landscaping in any tree protection zones.
Further comments may be forthcoming to mitigate impacts, such as
utility relocation, for example.
(vi) Provision of a “Tree Management Plan”.
Note to Applicant: It is preferred that the arborist tree management
plan become the primary document for tree removal/ protection
related matters. The landscape architectural tree management plan
provides useful information with regard to important cross sections
and other landscape design elements. While both documents should
be made consistent and submitted at large scale with the revised
submission package, the landscape architects’ version should
change its title label to differentiate it from the arborist tree plan.
(vii) Provision of an arborist “letter of undertaking” to include signatures
by the owner, contractor and arborist.
Note to Applicant: The signatures confirm that all parties are aware
of the roles and responsibilities and that the project is on track to
satisfy the steps and recommendations outlined by the arborist. For
example, advanced planning will be needed to ensure that certain
works, such as site supervision checkpoints, are coordinated.
11. Design development to improve public realm expression along Oak Street
and 70th Avenue. Delete any portions of the private open space that are
encroaching on the required 14 ft. public realm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 18
Note to Applicant: A double row of trees are required within the front-yard
setback, one row on private property and a second row on public property.
See Marpole Community Plan 7.2.2, 7.2.3 and 7.2.19 for further detail.
Where existing trees are being retained, integrate into the design.
For 70th Avenue frontage, further road design work will need to be completed
to determine the ultimate public realm design due to the building line
dedication.
12. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths for tree
and shrub planters to ensure long term viability of the landscape.
Note to Applicant: Underground parking slabs and retaining walls may need
to be altered to provide adequate depth and continuous soil volumes.
Growing mediums and planting depths should exceed BCLNA standards.
13. Provision of rooftop planting and presence of vegetation through extensive
green roofs, and large planters in combination with small species tree
canopy.
Note to Applicant: Shared gardening areas could be on rooftops as intensive
green roofs and should be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Design Guidelines for the Private Realm. They should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and be provided with
amenities such as raised beds, water for irrigation, potting bench, tool
storage and composting.
14. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted. The
Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials (with common
and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light
fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant material should be
listed in a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The
Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
15. Provision of detailed architectural and landscape cross sections (minimum
1/4" inch scale) through common open spaces, semi-private patio areas and
the public realm.
Note to Applicant: In tree areas, the sections should illustrate the slab design
and location, the soil profile, tree root ball, tree canopy and any associated
landscaping. For private patios and amenity areas, illustrate and dimension
planters on slab, planter sizes (inside dimension), soil, root ball, retaining
walls, steps, patios and portions of the adjacent building, such as residential
units or amenity rooms.
16. Provision of sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to public
realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated private to public
transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building façade, as well as
any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences and planters. The location of
the underground parking slab should be included in the section.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 19
17. Provision of plan details and documentation/calculations that support
achievement of LEED storm water credit(s) and integrated rainwater
management, including absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and detention
systems.
Note to Applicant: Landscape-related solutions and detention systems
should be shown on the plan. The LEED consultant should provide detailed
calculations to describe how the various best management practices
contributed to the quality and quantity targets.
18. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen parking garage
vents in a manner which minimizes their impact on the architectural
expression and the project’s open space and public realm.
19. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site, where
applicable.
Note to Applicant: Street trees to be shown on the development permit plans
and confirmed prior to the issuance of the building permit. Contact Eileen
Curran, Streets Engineering (604.871.6131) to confirm tree planting
locations and Park Board (604.257.8587) for tree species selection and
planting requirements. Provide a notation on the plan as follows, "Final
spacing, quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of good standard,
minimum 6cm caliper, and installed with approved root barriers, tree guards
and appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8 feet long and 18 inches in.
Planting depth of root ball must be below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board
for inspection after tree planting completion".
20. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and hose bibs for
all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq. ft.
Note to Applicant: Hose bibs are requested to encourage patio gardening
and hand watering in amenity decks. Any limitations to the installation of
hose bibs on private decks should be brought to the attention of staff in the
written response.
21. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape drawings;
all existing light poles should be shown.
Sustainability
22. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green Demolition/
Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing buildings on site, to
recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition waste (excluding hazardous
materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of development
permit application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 20
23. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements of the
preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended up to
January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63 points (LEED® Gold rating),
with 1 point for water efficiency and stormwater management and a 22%
reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with
registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be submitted as part
of the Development Permit that articulates which credits the applicant will be
pursuing and how their building application, as submitted, incorporates
strategies, features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated into the
drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional or
Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns with the
applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of registration of the CaGBC
must be provided with the application and the project registration number
incorporated into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
24. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 23, the applicant may
choose the meet the requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings amended February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near
Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero
emissions standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
25. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire the
project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize street
use during excavation and construction (i.e. consideration to the building
design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware
that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or
slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the already identified
project street use permissions.
26. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any
portion of the service connection above grade within the road right-of-way.
27. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual section
02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access around
existing and future utilities adjacent your site. Current construction practices
regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building permit
stage with final design achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent utilities prior
to building occupancy. Provision of written acknowledgement of this
condition is required. Please contact Engineering Services for details.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 21
28. Delete the private patios, gates and privacy screen shown within the building
line area to be dedicated.
29. A crossing application is required and design approval of the crossing is
required prior-to development permit issuance.
Note to Applicant: Show standard concrete crossing from curb to new
property line.
30. Deletion of the proposed landscape in the front boulevard on Oak Street and
70th Avenue.
31. Provision of a minimum 1 ft. setback between the edge of first stair riser and
the statutory right-of-way (SRW) on Oak Street.
32. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to the bicycle
room and note on drawings.
33. Provision of a plan showing the access route from the Class A bicycle
spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the use of the
parking ramp, if required.
34. Provision of bike racks to be installed entirely on private property.
Housing
35. Provide a completed Tenant Relocation Application Form which includes a
list outlining the name of each tenant, the number of the tenant’s unit, the
size of unit, the type of unit, and their rent, as per Section 6.1(a) of the
Tenant Relocation and Protection Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted at the time
of development permit application.
36. Provide a letter stating the property address and legal description of the site,
and providing the names and mailing addresses of all tenants.
37. Provide a notarized declaration, prior to issuance of a development permit
which demonstrates that each tenant has been given written notice of the
intent to redevelop the property; that indicates the number of units occupied
on the date of the notice; includes information on posting of notice regarding
the intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and includes copies of a letter
addressed to each tenant summarizing the Tenant Relocation Plan offer and
signed as received by each tenant.
38. Provide a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior to issuance of
the occupancy permit which outlines the names of tenants; indicates the
outcome of their search for alternate accommodation; summarizes the total
monetary value given to each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other
compensation); and includes a summary of all communication provided to
the tenants.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 22
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the General Manager
of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense
of the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
1. Consolidation of Lots 15 and 16, Both Except the East 7 Feet Now Road, of
Lot 33, Block B, District Lots 319, 323 and 324, Plan 1685 to create a single
parcel and subdivision of that site to result in:
(i) the dedication of the southerly 17 ft. (the building line area) for road
purposes; and
(ii) the dedication of a 11.5 ft. x 11.5 ft. corner-cut truncation in the
ultimate southeast corner of the site for road purposes.
Note to Applicant: A subdivision plan and application to the Subdivision and
Strata Group is required.
2. Provision of a surface statutory right-of-way (SRW) for public pedestrian use
over an area measured 2.2 m wide adjacent to the east property line.
Note to Applicant: Please delete what appears to be a planter encroaching
into the 2.2 m width.
3. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 331868M (commercial
crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an occupancy permit
for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment will satisfactorily address this
condition.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site (collectively
called the “services”) such that they are designed, constructed and installed
at no cost to the City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way
for the services are provided. No development permit for the site will be
issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow demands of
the project. The current application lacks the details to determine if
water main upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant
load, and domestic water demands to determine if water main
upgrading is required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services will be

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 23
required to secure payment for the upgrading. The developer is
responsible for 100% of any water system upgrading that may be
required.
(ii) Separate and upgrade the sewers on Oak Street from the manhole in
line with the north property line to the separated manholes south of
70th Avenue, approximately 85 m. Final pipe sizes and locations are
to be determined through the detailed civil design process.
(iii) Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must
be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not limited to
System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and
kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private
property with no reliance on public property for placement of these
features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that
this space has been allocated and agreement between both parties
has been met.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are to
consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City
needs in a configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
(v) Provision of upgraded street lighting on 70th Avenue and Oak Street
to current standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(vi) Provision of upgraded lighting for the signal at Oak Street and
70th Avenue (LED lighting is to be provided for all 4 corners of the
intersection).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 24
(vii) Provision of sod grass within the 17 ft. road dedication on
70th Avenue with a minimum 2 to 3% crossfall between the new
building line and the top of the curb on the north side of 70th Avenue
and deletion of the proposed second row of trees, landscape, and
basalt blocks.
Note that an existing mature tree is recommended for retention within
the new road dedication on 70th Avenue. Further evaluation of the
tree, existing grade of the tree and surrounding lands will be needed
to be determined final acceptance.
(viii) Provision of a new 1.83 m (6 ft.) light broom-finish saw-cut concrete
sidewalk and a 1.83 m (6 ft.) sod grass front boulevard on
70th Avenue with some adjustment around the existing tree.
(ix) Provision of a 2.44 m (8 ft.) CIP light broom-finish sidewalk with saw-
cut joints and a minimum 1.83 m (6 ft.) wide sod grass front
boulevard on Oak Street.
(x) Provision of new curb ramps and curb return at the northwest corner
of Oak Street and 70th Avenue.
(xi) Provision of a bus shelter on Oak Street adjacent to the site. Shelters
are supplied and installed by the City of Vancouver street furniture
contractor with the foundation and any electric connections and
drainage provided for by the applicant.
Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement securing all residential units as for-profit
affordable rental housing units pursuant to Section 3.1A of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law for the longer of 60 years or life of the
building, subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant.
(ii) A no stratification covenant.
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one month at a
time.
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial monthly rents
for each rental unit when the Housing Agreement is entered into, and
again prior to development permit issuance.
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each unit type will
be at or below the following proposed starting rents subject to
adjustment as contemplated by the Vancouver Development Cost
Levy By-law:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 25
8599 Oak Street
Unit Type
Proposed Average Starting Rents
1-bedroom $1,843
2-bedroom $2,293
3-bedroom $2,866
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an occupancy
permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services, that reflects
the agreed initial monthly rents as of occupancy in order to address
potential changes in unit mix and/or sizes between the rezoning and
development permit issuance, and to allow for the rents to be
increased annually from the time of the public hearing to initial
occupancy, as per the maximum increases authorized by the
Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law.
(vii) Compliance with the City-approved Tenant Relocation Plan,
including provision of a final Tenant Relocation Report prior to
issuance of the occupancy permit.
(viii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of Arts
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant
to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services (Environmental
Protection).
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a remediation
agreement for the remediation of the site and any contaminants
which have migrated from the site on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no occupancy of
any buildings or improvements on this site constructed pursuant to

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 26
(iv) this rezoning until separate Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the onsite and off-site contamination, issued by the
Ministry of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the
property owners, but also as registerable charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title Office,
with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting the subject
site as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to
the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law
and at no cost to the city.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including indemnities,
warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of permits, as
deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services.
The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate
city official having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 8599 Oak Street”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after
the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property owner and
their mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by the
above-noted Policy Report.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making
the expenditure or incurring the cost;
ii. THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any costs
incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of rezoning are at
the sole risk of the property owner; and
iii. THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not in
any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion,
regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such authority or
discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02280)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 27
3. REZONING: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue
An application by Cornerstone Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue from C-1 (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
six-storey mixed-use building with commercial uses at grade and 55 secured
for-profit affordable rental housing units. A height 21.3 m (70 ft.) and a floor
space ratio (FSR) of 3.00 are proposed
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Maira de Avila Wilton, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions from
Council received when the application was referred to Public Hearing.
Applicant Comments
Scott Kennedy, Cornerstone Architecture, noted the building would be a passive house design.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 12 letters in support, and
• Four letters opposed.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
Craig Jorgensen, Generation Squeeze, spoke in support of the application, noting it provides
much-need housing.
Theo Chassomeris spoke in opposition to the application, noting existing concerns with parking
and traffic in the area have not been addressed, and that this development would make the
situation even worse.
Applicant Closing Comments
Mr. Kennedy responded to questions regarding concerns raised by the speakers.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 28
Staff Closing Comments
Susan Haid, Assistant Director of Planning, Vancouver-South, Jennifer Draper, Manager, Parking
Management, and Brian Butt, Affordable Housing, Arts, Culture and Community Services,
responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application by Cornerstone Architecture, on behalf of Peak Real Estate
Marketing Ltd., to rezone 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue [PID: 006-779-514; Lot 13,
Block K, Section 42, THSL, Plan 11660] from C-1 (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio from
1.20 to 3.00 and the building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 21.3 m (70 ft.) to permit
the development of a six-storey mixed-use building with at-grade commercial uses
and 55 dwelling units secured as for-profit affordable rental housing, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018 entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue”, be approved subject to the
following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by Cornerstone Architecture and received on May 12, 2017,
subject to the following conditions, provided that the Director of Planning may allow
minor alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme
of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant shall
obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning who shall
have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce overlook and improve the interface to
adjacent single family properties, as follows:
(i) Delete the middle unit facing the interior side yard (Levels 2 and 3);
(ii) Reorient north-facing balconies to face east or west (Levels 2 to 5);
and
(iii) Increase the setback at the south end of the lane to 3.28 ft., to
improve the landscape buffer.
Note to Applicant: Reorienting the balconies and deleting the middle unit will
also improve access to light and livability for the dwelling units in the new
development.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 29
2. Improve and simplify the building massing expression, as follows:
(i) Delete the massing projection on the west elevation, Level 2, by
providing a continuous 12 ft. setback (Gridlines A to G);
(ii) Rationalize the geometry of the “superstructure” of balconies,
particularly on the west and north elevations;
(iii) Simplify and strengthen the south-west corner expression (Levels 2
to 6); and
(iv) Refine the design of balcony screens.
Note to Applicant: The building massing and elevations require further
design development to create a more coherent geometry and stronger
architectural expression. Screen design and location should directly relate to
solar performance; screens are thus not recommended on the north or east
elevations. Where and if they are provided, screens should be moveable
and should cover no more than 40% of the balcony opening.
3. Design development to improve livability, as follows:
(i) Reduce the depth of studio unit 214;
(ii) Meet horizontal angle of daylight standards for each unit;
(iii) Provide adequate storage for each unit; and
(iv) Provide an improved outdoor amenity space.
Note to Applicant: Typically, natural light can penetrate a unit a maximum of
30 ft., whereas unit 214 is approximately 50 ft. deep. This unit is also very
large for a studio (614 sq. ft.). It is strongly recommended that this unit be
combined with an adjacent unit and/or reconfigured to improve livability. It
should be demonstrated that the bedroom in Unit 2010 meets daylight
standards. Many in-suite storage rooms are compromised by the location of
laundry facilities, and do not appear to comply with the Bulk Storage bulletin
(refer to http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/bulletin/b004.pdf).
The outdoor amenity space to the north will have very poor solar access and
has limited functionality, as it also serves as circulation/exiting. The outdoor
space to the west is very small and has limited useable, programmable
space (per the Landscape Plan). A second outdoor space on the rooftop is
strongly recommended, to accommodate children’s play space, urban
agriculture, and social/dining areas.
4. Design development to improve the building elevations as follows:
(i) Indicate all exterior materials on elevation drawings;
(ii) Extend elevation drawings to include immediate context
(i.e. sidewalk and curb, outlines of neighbouring buildings to north
and west); and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 30
(iii) Provide drawn, scaled, streetscape elevations for Rupert Street and
22nd Avenue.
Note to Applicant: Further conditions may follow from the response to this
condition.
5. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the current Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings, with clarification of whether the Near Zero
Emissions Building or a Passive House Certification approach will be
pursued.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be submitted as part
of the Development Permit that articulates which strategies, features or
technologies will be incorporated into the project in order to achieve the
objectives of the Green Buildings Policy. The strategy, along with the
relevant checklists, must be incorporated into the drawing submission. A
letter from an accredited professional must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the project with a certification-granting organization (CaGBC
or other) must be provided with the application. Application for certification
will be required at a subsequent stage.
6. Submission of a bird friendly strategy for the design of the building and
landscape is encouraged in the application for a development permit.
Note to Applicant: The strategy should identify any particular risks with
regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose design features
to reduce these risks. For more information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having particular
regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Sustainability
8. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard approved by the
Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 31
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate that the
development is on track to achieve the above requirements at each stage of
permit. For more detail on the above requirements and what must be
submitted at each stage, refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Landscape Design
9. Design development to enhance sustainability and expand programming to
include a usable green roof and additional planted terraces at all levels, with
planted edges visible from the street.
10. Design development to expand programming to include urban agriculture
plots in common outside areas.
Note to applicant: This can be achieved by locating urban agriculture plots
on the rooftop (see condition (b)3). It should follow the City’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and include infrastructure
required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc. Garden plots should be
wheelchair accessible.
11. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible plants, in
addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as part of the
landscape design. Shared gardening areas should reference and be
designed to adhere to Council’s Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the Private
Realm and should provide maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility
and provided with amenities such as raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
12. Provision requirements at the time of Development Permit application:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted. The
Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials (with
common and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities), paving,
walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other landscape
features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should be a
minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4"=1'-0" scale to illustrate
typical proposed landscape elements including planters on
structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and other
features. Planter section details must confirm depth of proposed
planting on structures is deep enough to accommodate rootballs of
proposed trees well into the future.
(iii) Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to public realm
interface facing the street, confirming a delineated private to public
transition of spaces.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 32
Note to applicant: The sections should include the building façade,
as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences and planters.
The location of the underground parking slab should be included in
the section.
(iv) Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen lane edge
gas meters and parking garage vents in a manner which minimizes
their impact on the architectural expression and the project’s open
space and public realm.
(v) New proposed street trees should be coordinated with Engineering
and the Park Board and noted “Final species, quantity and spacing to
the approval of City Engineer and Park Board”. Contact Eileen
Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering Streets Division regarding
street tree spacing and quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford
(604-257-8587) of Park Board regarding tree species.
(vi) A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for all
planters on parkade slab and minimum of hose bibs to be provided
for landscape on grade;
(vii) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
(xiii) Provision of a detailed Letter of Assurance for Arborist supervision
during excavation in proximity to the retained site tree, to be signed
and dated by arborist, owner and contractor.
Engineering
13. Parking, loading, and bicycle spaces shall be provided and maintained
according to the provisions of the Vancouver Parking By-law.
14. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire the
project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize street
use during excavation and construction (i.e. consideration to the building
design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware
that a minimum 60 days lead time is required for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond the
already identified project street use permissions.
15. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual section
02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access around
existing and future utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be
sought at the building permit stage with final design achievements certified
and confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of
written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 33
16. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any
portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of way.
17. Provision of improved access to the commercial garbage area, separate
secured access to the commercial garbage area is to be provided.
18. Delete the “finger of landscaping” proposed in the back boulevard on Rupert
Street and landscaping shown over the property line in the lane on drawing
L1.
19. Delete proposed granite benches from public property; if seating is desired
on public property please contact Street Activities to secure installation of
accepted City style benches.
20. Provision of an updated Level 1 drawing that shows the Class B bicycle
racks.
21. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of Engineering
Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over public property. Note
canopies are to be fully demountable and drained to the buildings internal
drainage systems and should consider the final sidewalk location and widths
such that the drip line is achieving maximum weather protection for the
sidewalk users.
22. Provision of additional design elevations adjacent all entries clearly
indicating proposed grades adjacent all doors and provision of added
interpolated building grades that ensure entries will meet city sidewalks
accurately.
23. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site improvements sought
for this rezoning application.
Please update the landscape and site plan with the following note and
submit a separate copy to Engineering Services for review.
“The landscape plan is to be noted as “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is
to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks
prior to the start of any construction proposed for public property. No work
on public property may begin until such plans receive “For Construction”
approval and related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for
details.”
24. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as follows:
(i) Clearly label the class B loading space as “a shared use loading
space” on the drawings.
(ii) Provision of additional design elevations at all entrances, through the
loading bays and throughout the parking levels.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 34
Note to Applicant: insertion points for the design elevations and
lengths of slopes at all breakpoints to be shown on the drawings.
(iii) Provision of 6.6m (21.66’) maneuvering aisle width or provide 2.74m
(9’) stall widths.
25. Modification of the parking level design.
(i) Reduce grades on the drive aisles to 5% or less.
(ii) Provision of Section Drawing D and additional section drawings
through the Class B loading bays and at gridline K.
(iii) Provision of minimum 7’-6½” of vertical clearance for the full length of
the parking stall for disability parking space 24.
(iv) Show the main parkade ramp overhead gate on drawing A201.
Note to Applicant: Ramps which have a 15% slope and are exposed
to the weather must be heated.
(v) All stalls are to be clearly dimensioned on the drawings.
(vi) Eliminate the conflict between the person door access at the
residential gate and small car stall 4.
(vii) Design development to improve access between the loading,
garbage and all uses.
26. Modification of the loading bay design as follows:
(i) Additional loading bay width of 3.8 m for the second Class B loading
bay.
(ii) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route from the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the use
of the parking ramp, if required.
Affordable Housing
27. Provide a unit mix as proposed comprising at least 18 two-bedroom units
(33%) and 7 three-bedroom units (13%).
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning application
may only be varied under the discretion of the Director of Planning or
Development Permit Board provided that it does not go lower than 35% of
the dwelling units designed to be suitable for families with children.
28. The building is to comply with the High Density Housing for Families with
Children Guidelines, and include a common amenity room with kitchenette
and accessible washroom.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 35
Note to Applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas should be
adjacent to one another and have direct visual and physical connection
between them.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services (or
successors in function), as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Provision of a shared use loading agreement for the Class B loading to be
shared between the commercial and residential uses.
Note to Applicant: The shared use agreement shall specify allocated time
periods for shared use by residential vs. commercial units.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site (collectively
called the “services”) such that they are designed, constructed and installed
at no cost to the City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way
for the services are provided. No development permit for the site will be
issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow demands of
the project. The current application lacks the details to determine if
water main upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant
load, and domestic water demands to determine if water main
upgrading is required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services will be
required to secure payment for the upgrading. The developer is
responsible for 100% of any water system upgrading that may be
required.
(ii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service to meet the
demands of the project. The current application lacks the details to
determine if sewer main upgrading is required. Please supply project
details including floor area, projected fixture counts and other details
as required by the City Engineer to determine if sewer system
upgrading is required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services will be
required to secure payment for the upgrading. The developer is
responsible for 100% of any sewer system upgrading that may be
required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 36
(iii) Relocation/removal of the existing wood pole in the lane that blocks
parking and loading access and arrangements for replacement lane
lighting to current standards.
(iv) Removal of existing driveway crossings and reconstruction of curb
and sidewalks to standard is required.
(v) Provision of new CIP light broom-finish concrete sidewalk with saw-
cut joints along the site frontages between the existing front
boulevard and the building face is required. Note: delete reference to
sandblasted sidewalks. All walks should be light broom-finished
sidewalks and scoring pattern should carry from public to private
property where concrete sidewalks are provided.
(vi) Provision of new concrete bus stop landing area on 22nd Avenue
adjacent the site including relocation of bus shelter to accommodate
an improved bus-stop location. Final bus-stop/shelter/concrete
landing area to be determined prior to sidewalk reconstruction.
(vii) Provision of upgraded street lighting along the site frontages to
current standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(viii) Provision of a standard commercial concrete lane crossing at the
lane entry on the north side of 22nd Avenue at the lane west of
Rupert Street.
(ix) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are to
consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City
needs in a configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
(x) Provision of signal modifications at Rupert Street and 22nd Avenue
traffic signal to provide for updated Intersection lighting to LED
standards.
(xi) Provision of speed humps in the lane west of Rupert Street between
22nd Avenue and 21st Avenue. Final location and quantity of speed
humps to be determined prior to installation.
3. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that meets the
objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater Management Plan and
complies with the Sewer and Water Course Bylaw. The plan shall achieve
the following objectives:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 37
a. Retain or infiltrate 50% of the 6-month storm event volume (24 mm)
on-site;
b. Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) on-site; and
c. Maintain the pre-development 2 year storm event rate. The pre-
development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the
post development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
Note to applicant: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure on-
going operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater
management and green infrastructure systems.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest existing
suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be primary with
all electrical plant, which include but not limited to System Vista, Vista
switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC
Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features. In addition, there will be no
reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this development will
require approval by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with BC Hydro
that an area has been defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has been
allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.
Affordable Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services (or successor in function) and the Director
of Legal Services to enter into a Housing Agreement securing all residential
units as for-profit affordable rental housing units pursuant to Section 3.1A of
the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law for the longer of 60 years or
life of the building, and subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one month at a
time;
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial monthly rents
for each rental unit, when the Housing Agreement is entered into and
again prior to Development Permit issuance;
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each unit type will
be at or below the following proposed starting rents subject to
adjustment as contemplated by Section 3.1B(c) of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy-By-law:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 38
3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue
Unit Type
Proposed Average Starting Rents
Studio units $1,380
1-bedroom $1,698
2-bedroom $2,440
3-bedroom $2,920
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an occupancy
permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services (or successor in function) and the Director of
Legal Services, that reflects the agreed initial monthly rents as of
occupancy in order to address potential changes in unit mix and/or
sizes between the rezoning and development permit issuance, and
to allow for the rents to be increased annually from the time of the
Public Hearing to initial occupancy, as per the maximum increases
authorized by Section 3.1B(c) of the Vancouver Development Cost
Levy By-law.
(vii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing Agreement to
be entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of
the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services (Environmental
Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a remediation
agreement for the remediation of the site and any contaminants
which have migrated from the site on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no occupancy of
any buildings or improvements on the site constructed pursuant to
this rezoning until separate Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on site and off site contamination, issued by the
Ministry of Environment, have been provided to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 39
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the
property owners, but also as covenants pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title
Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title Office,
with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting the subject
site as are considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to
the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-law.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including indemnities,
warranties, equitable charges, and letters of credit, and provide for the withholding
of permits, as deemed appropriate by, and in the form and content satisfactory to,
the Director of Legal Services.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue”, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for
enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the
applicant and its mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law
contemplated by the above-noted Policy Reprot.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise Control
By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making
the expenditure or incurring the cost;
ii. THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any costs
incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of rezoning are at
the risk of the property owner; and
iii. THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not in
any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion,
regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such authority or
discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02881)
(Councillor Jang opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 15, 2018 40
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 8:40 pm.
* * * * *