REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MAY 2, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was
held on Wednesday, May 2, 2018, at 9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Heather Deal, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson, Vice-Chair
ABSENT: Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Medical Leave)
Councillor Raymond Louie (Sick Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
1. Funding Application to BC Community Emergency Preparedness Fund - Structural
Flood Mitigation
April 16, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve a funding application to UBCM’s Community Emergency
Preparedness Fund – Structural Flood Mitigation for $750,000 toward the Fraser River
Flood Protection – East Fraser Lands Area 2 (Phase 2) project.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02836)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 2
2. Energy and Water Efficiency Updates to the Building By-law and Rezoning Policy
April 20, 2018
Staff from the Sustainability Group reviewed the report and, along with staff from Engineering
Services, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support and two speakers who, while in general
support of the report, expressed concern with a number of aspects.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Building By-law generally
in the form attached as Appendix A to the Policy Report dated April 20, 2018,
entitled “Energy and Water Efficiency Updates to the Building By-law and
Rezoning Policy”, including:
i. Energy efficiency and airtightness requirements for residential buildings
over 6-storeys and commercial buildings that align with:
1. Step 2 of the BC Energy Step Code, and greenhouse gas limits
(GHG), beginning in June, 2019;
2. Step 3 of the BC Energy Step Code, and with the limits in the current
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings, beginning in June, 2021;
ii. Energy efficiency requirements, previously approved by Council for
4-6 storey residential buildings, to also be applied to mixed-use
residential buildings up to 6-storeys, where commercial uses may be
present on the first and second storey, including preserving both a
prescriptive and a performance option;
iii. Creating alternate compliance pathways to these requirements, where a
development may choose a higher Step of the BC Energy Step Code in
lieu of a GHG limit;
iv. Energy efficiency requirements for all other building types that reference
the most up-to-date North American energy standards for buildings, as
required by the upcoming updates to the base BC Building Code,
provisional upon Provincial approval of those updates; and
v. Addressing minor housekeeping changes to past updates, and the
removal of drain water heat recovery requirements pending further
implementation research and industry education;
FURTHER THAT that the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted Policy Report.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Building By-law generally
in the form attached as Appendix B to the Policy Report dated April 20, 2018,

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 3
entitled “Energy and Water Efficiency Updates to the Building By-law and
Rezoning Policy”, to enhance water efficiency requirements pertaining to
plumbing fixtures, appliances and equipment in all building types;
FURTHER THAT that the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
above-noted Policy Report.
C. THAT Council approve amendments to the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings
attached as Appendix B to the Policy Report dated April 20, 2018, entitled “Energy
and Water Efficiency Updates to the Building By-law and Rezoning Policy”,
including:
i. A change to the heat loss limit for residential buildings over 6-storeys
from 32 to 30, to align with Step 3 of the BC Energy Step Code;
ii. Creating alternate compliance pathways, where a development may
choose a higher Step of the BC Energy Step Code, or Passive House, in
lieu of a GHG limit; and
iii. The addition of low-volatile organic compounds (VOC) materials, and
energy metering and reporting requirements, for buildings pursuing the
near-zero emissions building pathway (e.g. Passive House).
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02828)
3. Update on Liquor Policy Implementation and Upgrading the Granville
Entertainment District
April 25, 2018
The General Manager of Development, Buildings and Licensing, and the Director of Licensing,
Property Use and Animal Services, reviewed the report.
The Committee heard from eight speakers in support of the report. One of the speakers also
requested Council remove the 3000 square foot restriction from the liquor retail store
framework.
* * * * *
At 11:59 am, during the hearing of speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova and Jang absent for the vote)
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 4
* * * * *
At 12:40 pm, following the hearing of speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the order of the agenda be varied to deal with Item 5 prior to completion of Item 3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Note: For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:41 pm and reconvened at 1:13 pm.
* * * * *
5. City of Vancouver Accessibility Strategy
At the Regular Council meeting on May 1, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to
the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on May 2, 2018, to hear from
speakers.
The Committee heard from seven speakers in support of the motion.
The following motion contains changes to the original motion which were accepted by the
Committee.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Canadian Charter of Rights and
Freedoms, the Canadian Human Rights Act, and the British Columbia Human
Rights Code recognize the rights of persons with disabilities to be free from
discrimination and to participate fully in society;
2. According to the World Health Organization, 15% of the global population
experience some form of disability;
3. The Province of British Columbia’s Accessibility 2024 Action Plan set out a goal
for British Columbia to be the most progressive province in Canada for people
with disabilities by 2024;
4. The City of Vancouver Healthy City Strategy focuses on advancing “initiatives
that are both universal for all citizens and focused on specific populations most
vulnerable to health inequities”;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 5
5. The City of Vancouver Transportation 2040 Plan aims to make streets accessible
for all people, leading to increased equity by allowing all people to meet their
daily needs and participate in public life;
6. The City of Vancouver currently does not have a comprehensive strategy to
promote and implement measures to advance the rights of persons with
disabilities;
7. Making the City of Vancouver more accessible benefits Persons with Disabilities,
and other people, including seniors, individuals with temporary or permanent
mobility issues and young families;
8. On April 5, 2018, the City of Vancouver Persons with Disabilities Advisory
Committee unanimously passed a motion entitled “Accessible City Strategy”.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to work with the Persons with Disabilities Advisory
Committee, the Seniors’ Advisory Committee, the Mayor's Task Force on Mental
Health, and Addictions People With Lived Experiences Working Group, to review:
i. A summary of the current policies and initiatives being pursued across
City departments with respect to persons with disabilities, universal
design and access; and
ii. Options to advance implementation of accessibility throughout the City,
potentially including a Vancouver-specific accessibility commitment and
strategy, while continuing to address key accessibility issues.
B. THAT staff consult with the Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee, the
Seniors’ Advisory Committee, the Mayor's Task Force on Mental Health, and
Addictions People With Lived Experiences Working Group, and report back to
Council by Fall of 2018, with recommendations on moving forward with an
Accessibility Strategy, including a budget for implementation.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02829)
* * * * *
Following completion of Item 5, the Committee continued with Item 3.
* * * * *
3. Update on Liquor Policy Implementation and Upgrading the Granville
Entertainment District
April 25, 2018
The Deputy City Manager, along with staff from Cultural Services, Development Buildings and
Licensing, Engineering Services and the Vancouver Police Department, responded to
questions.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 6
* * * * *
At 3:03 pm, Councillor Bremner rose and declared Conflict of Interest as he was employed by
the BC Wine Industry in 2015, and would, therefore, not be voting on A and B.
* * * * *
The Committee agreed to sever the vote on the components of the motion.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle amendments to License By-law Number 4450
generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated
April 25, 2018, entitled “Update on Liquor Policy Implementation and Upgrading
the Granville Entertainment District”, to: restrict the location of advertising by
liquor stores located in grocery stores; require the display of drink strength;
establish a Class 8 Liquor Establishment licence; and clarify the process to be
followed by the City in providing comments on liquor licence applications to the
Provincial Liquor Control and Licensing Branch;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
above-noted Administrative Report.
B. THAT Council approve amendments to the Liquor Store Guidelines as presented
in Appendix C of the Administrative Report dated April 25, 2018, entitled “Update
on Liquor Policy Implementation and Upgrading the Granville Entertainment
District”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02831)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote due to Conflict of Interest)
C. THAT Council adopt the Policy on Support for Liquor Licences at Arts and
Culture Businesses as presented in Appendix D of the Administrative Report
dated April 25, 2018, entitled “Update on Liquor Policy Implementation and
Upgrading the Granville Entertainment District”.
D. THAT Council approve in principle an amendment to Noise Control By-law
No. 6555 generally in accordance with Appendix E of the Administrative Report
dated April 25, 2018, entitled “Update on Liquor Policy Implementation and
Upgrading the Granville Entertainment District”, to establish 9:00 a.m. to
1:00 a.m. as the time when maximum noise levels from live entertainment at
restaurants are in force;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix E of the
above-noted Administrative Report.
E. THAT Council approve removal of the probationary period restricting liquor
service hours for known good operators licensing new restaurants.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 7
F. THAT Council adopt the policy to allow patios at liquor establishments in the
Granville Entertainment District.
G. THAT Council receive for information the Granville Entertainment District (GED)
liquor policies and general GED upgrades update as presented in the
Administrative Report dated April 25, 2018, entitled “Update on Liquor Policy
Implementation and Upgrading the Granville Entertainment District”.
H. THAT staff, as part of the City’s Creative City Strategy, establish a “Nightlife
Council” that combines safety, security, transportation, economic development,
and vibrant street life, integrating lessons learned from the GED Safety and
Security Working Group.
I. THAT staff pursue opportunities for a collaborative funding partnership to support
a permanent Good Night Out Program that contributes to nighttime safety
downtown, particularly for women, LGBTQ2+ and other vulnerable populations.
J. THAT Council direct staff to work with the Vancouver Police Department to review
fighting fines in the city of Vancouver and consider increasing those fines;
FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council with any recommendations on the
above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02837)
4. Mixed-Use Development at 1636 Clark Drive and 1321 to 1395 East 1st Avenue –
Approval of MOU, Capital Contributions and Negotiation of Ground Lease
April 19, 2018
The General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services provided opening comments
followed by staff from the Social Policy and Projects Division, who reviewed the report and,
along with James Forsyth, Director of Regional Development, BC Housing, and Bonnie Wilson,
Vancouver Inner City and Program Lead for Mental Health & Substance Use, responded to
questions.
The Committee heard from five speakers in opposition to the report. Concerns expressed
included lack of public consultation and location.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the executed Memorandum of Understanding, included as
Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated April 19, 2018, entitled “Mixed-Use
Development at 1636 Clark Drive and 1321 to 1395 East 1st Avenue – Approval
of MOU, Capital Contributions and Negotiation of Ground Lease”, between the
City of Vancouver, the British Columbia Housing Management Commission, and
Vancouver Coastal Health Authority for a proposed mixed-use development
comprising the City-owned lots addressed at 1636 Clark Drive and 1321 to
1395 East 1st Avenue, legally described as:

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 8
Parcel Identifier: 013-004-638, Lot 24, Except (A) Part in Plan 4123 and (B) Part
in Explanatory Plan 17378 Block 60 District Lot 264A Plans 383 and 1771
Parcel Identifier: 013-004-590, Lot 23, Except Part in Explanatory Plan 17378,
Block 60 District Lot 264A Plans 383 and 1771
Parcel Identifier: 013-004-581, Lot 22, Except Part in Explanatory Plan 17378,
Block 60 District Lot 264A Plans 383 and 1771
Parcel Identifier: 006-747-884, Lot 21 Block 60 District Lot 264A Plan 383 and
1771
Parcel Identifier: 013-359-932, Lot 20 Block 60 District Lot 264A Plan 383 and
1771
Parcel Identifier: 015-327-345, Lot 19, Except the South 7 Feet Now Road,
Block 60 District Lot 264A Plan 383 and 1771
Parcel Identifier: 015-327-337, Lot 18, Except the South 7 Feet Now Road,
Block 60 District Lot 264A Plan 383 and 1771
The Common Property of Strata Plan VAS1149 and Strata Lots 1 to 13 District
Lot 264A Strata Plan VR. 1149
Parcel Identifier: 015-213-552, Lot 15 Block 60 District Lot 264A Plan 383 and
1771
Parcel Identifier: 015-327-329, Lot 14 Block 60 District Lot 264A Plan 383 and
1771
Parcel Identifier: 012-694-029, Lot 13 Block 60 District Lot 264A Plan 383 and
1771
(Together “the Property”).
B. THAT Council receive for information the preliminary budget for the
development of the Property as set out in Table 1 of the Administrative Report
dated April 19, 2018, entitled “Mixed-Use Development at 1636 Clark Drive and
1321 to 1395 East 1st Avenue – Approval of MOU, Capital Contributions and
Negotiation of Ground Lease”, and staff will return to Council for approval for any
finalized City contributions for the development.
C. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to commence
negotiations with the British Columbia Housing Management Commission for a
ground lease of the Property (after consolidation), which ground lease will be
negotiated on the understanding that the execution and registration of the ground
lease will be subject to: the Property being consolidated; the Property being
rezoned through the City’s normal regulatory process (including, without
limitation, satisfaction of all rezoning conditions), and; approval of the
fully-negotiated ground lease by Council on the following key terms:

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 9
Parties: City of Vancouver, as landlord (the “City”)
British Columbia Housing Management Commission (or its
designate), as tenant (“BC Housing”)
Premises: The Property subject to consolidation of the Property into
one legal parcel
Term: Of sufficient length to enable both construction of the
development and a 99-year lease of the social housing
component of the development upon completion of construction
Rent: Nominal rent of $10, a nominal rent
long-term lease to be part of the City’s capital contribution towards
the development
Use: A four-storey mixed-use CD-1 development of approximately
118,000 sq. ft. (subject to final design and approval) comprised of
the following uses and areas:
• Community Health Services & Adult Transitional Services
measuring ~55,000sf, including 20 Transitional Units (the
“Community Health Component”)
• Social Housing measuring ~60,000sf, 60-100 units (the
“Social Housing Component”)
• Social Enterprise Space measuring ~3,000sf (the “Social
Enterprise Component”)
(the “Development”).
Other Terms: Upon completion of the Development, BC Housing shall sublease
the Community Health Component for 99 years less one day to Vancouver
Coastal Health (VCH) and the Social Enterprise Component for 99 years less
one day to the City
The ground lease is to be based on the City’s form of lease for developments of
this nature, drawn to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Real Estate &
Facilities Management, the General Manager of Arts, Culture & Community
Services and the Director of Legal Services
(Collectively, the “Ground Lease”).
D. THAT Council approve a capital contribution in the amount of $16,700,000, in the
form of a nominal ground lease, towards this Development; this contribution
being the fair market value of the 99 year Ground Lease for the contemplated
consolidated site. Consolidation of the properties will require a transfer of
properties from the Capital Fund to the PEF, and will be brought forward
separately for Council approval.
E. THAT Council’s decision to approve the Memorandum of Understanding, receive
the preliminary budget for information, to authorize the Director of Real Estate
Services to commence negotiations with the BC Housing for the Ground Lease of
the Property and to approve the capital contribution towards the Development in

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 10
the amount of the fair market value of the Ground Lease will not, in any way, limit
Council or the City and its officials (including the Approving Officer) in exercising
their regulatory discretion in respect of any rezoning, subdivision or consolidation
or permitting of or for the Property.
F. THAT no legal rights or obligations shall be created and none shall arise until the
matters set forth in Section 7.2 of the Memorandum of Understanding have been
fulfilled, including approval by Council.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02833)
6. Recognizing Italian Heritage Month and “Italian Day on the Drive” in the List of
“Official Celebrations and Observances” in the City of Vancouver
At the Regular Council meeting on May 1, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter to
the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on May 2, 2018, to hear from
speakers.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Italian Day on the Drive is a vibrant cultural street festival, celebrating Italian
culture, heritage and community on Commercial Drive in Little Italy. This free, all
ages and car free event has an attendance of more than 200,000 people and last
year the numbers for attendance were the same as the Pride Parade in the City
of Vancouver;
2. Several significant events, observances and celebrations are recognized on the
City of Vancouver website including: Lunar New Year, Black History Month,
International Women’s Day, International Day for the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination, World Refugee Day, National Indigenous Peoples Day,
Vancouver Pride Week, Eid-al-Adha, Diwali: Festival of Lights, Remembrance
Day and International Day of Persons with Disabilities;
3. The City of Vancouver website states “City Council and staff recognize and value
the contributions of the diverse communities that make Vancouver one of the
most livable cities in the world. We also observe internationally recognized days
significant in our history.”;
4. Although Council has in past years provided an official proclamation for “Italian
Heritage Month”, this month-long celebration is absent from the list of “Official
Celebrations and Observances” on the City of Vancouver website. Furthermore,
the text above the list on the website states that “The official celebrations and
observances listed below have been approved by City Council”;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 11
5. June is Italian Heritage Month across Canada. In May 2017, the Federal
Government passed a motion to recognize the month of June as Italian Heritage
month across Canada;
6. Costs for Italian Day on The Drive continue to rise and costs for the event in
2018 are projected to total over $300,000. “Italian Day on The Drive 2018” is
facing $40,000 more in City of Vancouver required costs than in 2017;
7. For 2016 and 2017, “Italian Day on the Drive”, received only $4,000 annually,
towards event costs in a Cultural Grant from the City of Vancouver.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council approve June as Italian Heritage Month and highlight the
celebration of “Italian Day on The Drive” in the list of official celebrations and
observances recognized by the City of Vancouver.
B. THAT Council direct staff to work with “Italian Day on The Drive” organizers to
discuss the possibility of an increase in the grants and funding the City of
Vancouver can provide.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the motion be struck and replaced with the following:
A. THAT Council approve June as Italian Heritage Month.
B. THAT interim to the “Destination Special Event Strategy” final report
and recommendations coming back to Council:
i. Council confer the designation of “Official Celebration and
Observance” and the benefits that go with that designation, on
Italian Day, Car Free Day, Greek Day on Broadway, Dragon Boat
Festival, and the Khatsalano Street Party in 2018; and
ii. Staff report back to Council by end of June 2018 on options for
City to support all free outdoor public events with attendance
averaging 50,000 people or more to assist them in effectively
responding to emerging security challenges, and to develop plans
for financial and environmental sustainability.
amended
* * * * *
During debate, the Committee recessed at 4:56 pm and reconvened at 5:22 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 12
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the amendment be struck and replaced with the following:
A. THAT Council approve June as Italian Heritage Month and be recognized
with City of Vancouver Official Celebration and Observance designation;
FURTHER THAT funding be provided by the City of Vancouver to Italian
Day on The Drive similar to other events of similar size starting in 2019
and onward.
B. THAT interim to the “Destination Special Event Strategy” final report
and recommendations coming back to Council:
i. Council also confer the designation of “Official Celebration and
Observance” and the benefits that go with that designation on
Car Free Day, Greek Day on Broadway, Dragon Boat Festival, and
the Khatsahlano Street Party in 2018; and
ii. Staff report back to Council by end of June 2018 on options for
the City to support all free outdoor public events with
attendance averaging 50,000 people or more to assist them in
effectively responding to emerging security challenges, and to
develop plans for financial and environmental sustainability.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSY (Vote No. 02834)
The amendment to the amendment having CARRIED, the motion as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02835).
The Committee adjourned at 5:44 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MAY 2, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
May 2, 2018, at 5:44 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and
actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Medical Leave)
Councillor Raymond Louie (Sick Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, May 2, 2018
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Funding Application to BC Community Emergency Preparedness Fund - Structural Flood
Mitigation
2. Energy and Water Efficiency Updates to the Building By-law and Rezoning Policy
3. Update on Liquor Policy Implementation and Upgrading the Granville Entertainment
District
4. Mixed-Use Development at 1636 Clark Drive and 1321 to 1395 East 1st Avenue –
Approval of MOU, Capital Contributions and Negotiation of Ground Lease
5. City of Vancouver Accessibility Strategy
6. Recognizing Italian Heritage Month and “Italian Day on the Drive” in the List of “Official
Celebrations and Observances” in the City of Vancouver

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, May 2, 2018 2
Items 1 - 6
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of May 2, 2018, as contained in items 1 to 6, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
* * * * *
At 5:45 pm, Councillor Bremner rose and declared Conflict of Interest as he was employed by
the BC Wine Industry in 2015, and would, therefore, not be voting on the by-laws.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 and 2
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bremner ineligible to vote due to Conflict of Interest)
1. By-law to amend License By-law No. 4450 regarding liquor requirements
(By-Law No. 12090)
2. By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 regarding restaurants with live
entertainment (By-law No. 12091)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 5:46 pm.
* * * * *