SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
SIGN BY-LAW APPEAL HEARING
APRIL 24, 2018
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, April 24, 2018,
at 3:03 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose of considering an
applicant request for reconsideration of the decision of the Director of Planning in refusing to
issue a Sign Permit.
PRESENT: Deputy Mayor Tim Stevenson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
ABSENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Medical Leave)
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer (Leave of Absence)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Deputy Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on
these lands.
Grant Murray, Legal Services, provided an overview of the process whereby Council was to
consider an application for reconsideration of a sign permit related decision made by the
Director of Planning. Mr. Murray reviewed the sections of the Vancouver Charter and
Sign By-law which govern Council’s new role in this regard. He noted that Council may decide
to either uphold, overturn or vary the decision of the Director of Planning, and that it should
provide the reasons for its decision. Mr. Murray also responded to questions from Council.
1. Applicant Request for Council Reconsideration of Refused Sign Permit
SI-2018-00022, 701 West Georgia Street
Applicant Comments
Lindsay Miles, Vice President, Imperial Sign Corporation, stated several reasons the relocation
of the existing illuminated projecting sign on the 700 block of Granville Street is appropriate as it
identifies a primary entrance to Pacific Centre as a wayfinding display and is not out of context
for Granville Street considering the number of single use tenants with similar styles of displays.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 24, 2018 2
Tom Knoepfel, Senior Vice President, Cadillac Fairview, provided an overview of the sign
application requesting the relocation of the existing illuminated projecting sign on the 700 block
of Granville Street. Mr. Knoepfel indicated the sign needs to be relocated to accommodate the
renovation at the H&M storefront on Granville Street. The application requests to move an
existing sign 30 feet to the south and would be placed more directly over the Granville Street
entrance to Pacific Centre. Mr. Knoepfel noted the majority of the 100 plus stores at Pacific
Centre are subterranean and less than 10 per cent of the stores have an exterior street
entrance. The sign has existed in its current location for seven years and is consistent with
signs along this downtown stretch of Granville Street. There are no other locations on this
building along Granville Street to accommodate this sign. It was Mr. Knoepfel’s opinion that
these unique physical circumstances constitute unnecessary hardship and requested approval
of the sign relocation.
Staff Comments
Kristen Elkow, Planner (Sign By-Law), Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided an
overview of the Policy Report dated April 10, 2018, entitled “Applicant Request for Council
Reconsideration of Refused Sign Permit SI-2018-00022, 701 West Georgia Street”. Ms. Elkow
reviewed the process and considerations for unnecessary hardship for this application and the
rationale for the refusal of the sign permit which led to the request for reconsideration before
Council.
Speakers
Council heard from one speaker, Charles Gauthier, Downtown Vancouver Business
Improvement Association who spoke in favour of relocation of the sign.
Council Questions
Mr. Miles, Mr. Knoepfel, Mr. Murray, Ms. Elkow, Sonia Erichsen, Manager, Services Centre,
Development, Buildings and Licensing and Michelle McGuire, Senior Planner, Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability, all responded to questions regarding the relocation of the sign and
clarification and definition of unnecessary hardship as defined in the Sign By-law.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 24, 2018 3
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
THAT Council overturn the decision by the Director of Planning to refuse to issue
Sign Permit SI-2018-00022 due to unnecessary hardship created by the unique physical
circumstances of the site where street access to the subterranean mall with over 100
stores is limited to a small entrance requiring a larger sign.
FURTHER THAT the permit be issued in a timely manner.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02782)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Special Council adjourned at 4:02 pm.
* * * * *