PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
APRIL 17, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, April 17, 2018, at 6:14 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie*
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mayor Robertson reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not
necessary for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in
order to comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should
be put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign and
Heritage By-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Reimer and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova, Louie and Stevenson absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 2
1. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 35-43 West 6th Avenue (Coulter House)
An application by Conwest Group was considered as follows:
Summary: To add to the existing building at 35 West 6th Avenue (Coulter House) to the
Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category, and to designate
the exterior of the existing building as protected heritage property.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Applicant Comments
Joe Carreira, Conwest Group, provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was scheduled for public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Laura Balance
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 6:26 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Joe Carriera, Conwest Group, responded to questions.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff, provided closing comments and responded to
questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 3
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council add the Coulter House at 35 West 6th Avenue [PID: 015-558-487;
Lot 12, Block 32, District Lot 200A, Plan 197 (the “site”)] to the Vancouver
Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law
to designate the exterior of the Coulter House (the “heritage building”) as
protected heritage property.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02758)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: 969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street
An application by Westbank Projects was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the text of CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District (445) for
969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street to increase the permitted
building height from 169.50 to 169.75 m. This will account for a discrepancy in
the measurement of building height for the 57-storey tower approved for this
site.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 4
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:32 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Westbank Projects, on behalf of The First Baptist
Church of Vancouver, to amend CD-1 (445) District By-law No. 9204 for
969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street [PID: 030-317-924; Lot A,
Block 7, District Lot 185, Group 1, New Westminster District Plan EPP76101], to
increase the permitted building height from 169.50 to 169.75 m, as measured to
top of the roof slab, and from 178.60 to 178.89 m to the top of the mechanical
appurtenance, to account for a discrepancy in the measurement of building
height for the 57-storey tower approved for this site, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated February 27, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street”, be approved.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02759)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
3. REZONING: 339 East 1st Avenue
An application by IBI Group was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 339 East 1st Avenue from I-3 (Industrial) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District to permit the development of a seven-storey office
building with a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.98.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 5
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Craig Marcyniuk, Port Development (False Creek) Ltd., responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Gordon Waselnuk
Melissa Woods
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 6:54 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing comments and responded to
questions.
Council Decision
The following contains changes to the Landscape condition under Conditions of Approval of
Form of Development, which were accepted by the Committee.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
A. THAT the application by IBI Group, on behalf of Porte Development (False
Creek) Ltd., to rezone 339 East 1st Avenue [PID 007-197-918; Lot 3, Block 3,
District Lots 200A and 2037, Plan 18109] from I-3 (Industrial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to allow for the construction of a
seven-storey office building with a floor area of 13,325.5 sq. m (143,434 sq. ft.)
and floor space ratio of 2.98, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated February 27, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 339 East 1st Avenue”,
be approved subject to the following conditions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 6
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by IBI Group, and stamped “Received
City Planning Department, July 21, 2017” and the revised roof level plan
dated December 1, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may
allow minor alterations to this form of development when approving the
detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to articulate and add visual interest to the
western wall by:
(i) Breaking down the wall;
(ii) Adding transparent surfaces, including provision of
openings; and
(iii) Providing suitable landscape.
2. Design development to maintain high-quality and durable
materials at the full building perimeter consistent with the existing
industrial character and with the volumetric distinction proposed.
Note to Applicant: Cementitious panels, such as Hardie Panel, are
not considered as high-quality materials.
3. Design development to extend suitable deep-shading devices on
all appropriate elevations, including the western and southern
facades.
4. Design development to provide pedestrian connection to both
west and east at the northern property line.
Sustainability
5. Meet the requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 7
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017,
or later).
Landscape
6. Further design development of landscape to be explored to have a
respectful interface to the Brewery Creek right-of-way (future
wetland area) that is located to the east of the subject site.
7. Design development to maximize the size and programming of the
common amenity green roof on Level 7 to provide as much usable
common space as possible.
Note to applicant: This should include urban agriculture, additional
opportunities for social interaction, such as additional benches
and seat walls for passive seating and gathering. Urban
agriculture plots should follow the City’s Urban Agriculture
Guidelines for the Private Realm and include infrastructure
required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc. Garden plots
should be wheelchair accessible. Outdoor spaces should be
visually accessible from common indoor amenity rooms. Any
adjacent mechanical rooms should be adequately screened.
8. Design development to clearly integrate sustainable rainwater
management features into the landscape plan.
9. Design development to provide an integrated public art
component into the landscape plan, in keeping with False Creek
Flats guidelines.
10. Provision of an arborist report to ensure all adjacent and City trees
are safely retained and protected. The report should be in context
of the proposed form of development and footprint. It should
include a Tree Management Plan, showing scaled and
dimensioned tree protection barriers. The report should also clarify
tree ownership.
11. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
12. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted.
The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials
(with common and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities),
paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other
landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List
that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 8
should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should match the
architectural site plan.
13. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2”=1’-0” scale to illustrate
typical proposed landscape elements including planters on
structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details should show dimensioned
rootballs to confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well
into the future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standard.
14. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for all
planted areas.
15. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
16. Provision of improved graphic readability by deleting grey tones to
ensure the plan reads well in black and white, or submission of
colour plans only.
Engineering
17. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection/removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
18. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
19. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 9
20. Provision of a crossing design to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. A crossing application is
required.
21. Confirmation that there are no trees to be located within the
relocated sewer SRW and a review by sewers design branch of
the development permit drawings to confirm all features within the
proposed relocated sewer SRW are acceptable to the City
Engineer. Clearly show the relocated SRW on the drawings.
22. Clearly show property lines on all drawings (site and section
plans).
23. Provision of a separate application for all public property
improvements is required; please submit a copy of an updated
landscape plan that reflects the off-site improvements sought for
this application.
24. Where details of an off-site improvement are not available a
written description of the improvement is to be noted on the
landscape plan.
25. Provision of a stormwater and rain water management plan that
meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Watercourse
Bylaw. The plan shall achieve the following:
(i) Retain or infiltrate 24 mm of rainfall per storm event onsite;
(ii) Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) onsite;
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 2014 I DF-10 year storm
event rate. The post development estimate shall use the
2100 IDF curve to account for climate change; and
(iv) Meet the January 1, 2018, Vancouver building code
plumbing fixture rates.
26. The following note is to be placed on the landscape plan:
“This plan is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted
for review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to
the start of any construction proposed for public property. No work
on public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering, Development Services and/or your
Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
27. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 10
(i) Provision of an updated Transportation Assessment and
Management Study to include a Loading Study.
(ii) Provision of a Loading Management Plan (LMP) detailing
how the loading facility will operate, management of the
facility, including on-site loading manager, the expected
frequency of all deliveries and design interventions to
maximize and reinforce the designation of the loading
spaces.
(iii) Provision of a section drawing showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp, the
parking levels and through the loading bays.
Note to Applicant: label minimum clearance for parking
levels on drawing, including overhead gate and
mechanical projections.
(iv) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bays,
throughout the parking levels and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: The slope and length of all ramped
sections to be shown on the submitted drawings.
(v) Provision of a corner cut through the inside radius of the
ramp from P1 to P2 for improved two-way flow.
(vi) Dimension stalls widths and clearances for all parking
stalls next to a wall.
(vii) Modification of the loading bay design as follows:
a. Provide double-load throats for the Class B loading;
b. Additional loading bay width for the second and
subsequent loading spaces (each additional space
must be 3.8 m wide);
c. Remove columns encroaching into required
maneuvering areas;
d. Provision of additional security gate width for
improved Class B manoeuvering;
e. Design development to improve loading operations
at the rear of the Class B loading bays;
f. Clarify the internal access route from the Class A
bicycle parking to the lobby; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 11
g. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle room(s).
28. Additional Notes:
(i) The development to be serviced by the sewers on
1st Avenue;
(ii) This site may be subject to floodplain requirements (see
Floodplain Protection Policies). Refer to CBO;
(iii) Note to PC: A complete tech table is required showing the
calculations for the minimum required parking, loading,
bicycle spaces and the number of spaces being provided;
and
(iv) A Loading Study and a Loading Management Plan is
required at the DP stage in support of any loading
relaxation for this site.
Note: The Applicant is only proposing one additional
Class A loading space in lieu of 2 Class B loading spaces.
For Class B loading relaxation, 2 Class A loading spaces
to be provided in lieu of one Class B space.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
29. The proposed plan for site heating and cooling, developed in
consultation with the City, shall be provided prior to the issuance
of development permit, to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall work with the City to identify
potential waste heat recovery opportunities and make waste heat
available to the SEFC NEU.
30. The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system shall be
designed to be compatible with the SEFC NEU system to supply
all heating and domestic hot water requirements. Design
provisions related to Neighbourhood Energy compatibility must be
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall refer to the Energy Utility
System By-law (9552) and Neighbourhood Energy Utility Building
Connection Guideline (2016) for specific design requirements,
which includes provisions related to the location of the mechanical
room(s), centralization of mechanical equipment, pumping and
control strategy, and other hydronic heating and domestic hot
water system minimum requirements. The applicant is
encouraged to work closely with Staff to ensure adequate
provisions for NEU compatibility are provided for in the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 12
mechanical design. As a pre-condition to building permit, the City
will conduct a peer design review of the building’s connection to
the NEU to ensure that the neighbourhood energy connectivity
requirements have been satisfied.
31. The building mechanical system must utilize the energy transfer
station for all of its space heating and domestic hot water
requirements, and the building mechanical system must not
incorporate any additional heat production equipment including,
but not limited to, boilers, air source heat pumps, furnaces, hot
water heaters, electric baseboards, or heat producing fire places
except that:
(i) A building may incorporate a solar system to generate heat
energy;
(ii) A building may incorporate hybrid heat pumps for space
cooling, provided the compressor cannot operate in
heating mode;
(iii) A building may incorporate heat recovery ventilation (air to
air heat exchangers) and waste heat recovery from
refrigeration or active cooling systems for the purposes of
supplementing the heat energy provided:
a. The systems used for heat recovery from
refrigeration or active cooling do not provide any
supplemental heating to the building when there is
no active cooling service required;
b. The approach to heat recovery is consistent with
this Schedule (i.e. hydronic systems with
centralized mechanical equipment); and
c. Waste heat recovery systems do not cross property
lines.
Exceptions for on-site heat production may be approved by
the City Engineer, particularly if the total heat production
produced by all exceptions does not exceed 1% of the total
annual thermal energy needs of the building.
32. Provision for an adequate and appropriate dedicated Energy
Transfer Station room (6 m x 3 m) to be utilized for connecting the
building to the Neighbourhood Energy system shall be provided,
prior to the issuance of development permit, to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: This site will be serviced by the NEU from
1st Avenue. Applicant must coordinate with City staff to ensure
NEU room location is acceptable.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 13
33. Provision for an adequate and appropriate dedicated
Neighbourhood Energy Room to be utilized by the NEU for
peaking/backup heat production and waste heat recovery shall be
provided prior to the issuance of development permit, to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: Boilers /heat pumps used for system
peaking/backup are required throughout the NEU network. This
site has been identified as a potential location for system peaking.
Design provisions include allowance for the installation of heat
producing equipment (boilers / heat pumps) in the building
parkade. The room location must be suitable for accommodating
boiler ventilation and flues, and connecting to the NEU distribution
piping. The applicant is encouraged to work closely with City Staff
on this requirement.
34. Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical heating
system at the building permit stage must be to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Modification or replacement of SRW Agreement 488912M
(Explanatory Plan 10091) to reflect the proposed relocation of the
existing sewer line to align with the east property line. The
proposed relocated SRW width is to be to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. Note the SRW may
need additional width to allow for adequate sewer servicing.
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 490209M
(commercial crossings) & Extension agreement H17468 prior to
building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a natural watercourse agreement. Records indicate a
natural watercourse passes through this site, a legal agreement
ensuring that should the watercourse be discovered or impact the
site during development and beyond that its flow will not be
obstructed.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 14
4. Provision of a reciprocal access agreement with the 2 adjacent
lots for use of the proposed bridge that straddle the east property
line.
5. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary
street dedications and rights of way for the services are provided.
No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided as follows:
(i) Provision of street re-construction on 1st Avenue adjacent
to the site to generally include the following; new curb and
gutter, a 2.5 m wide raised protected bike lane, a broom
finish concrete sidewalk at a width acceptable to the City
Engineer with saw cut joints, improved street lighting
adjacent the site and provision of pedestrian LED lighting
including a lighting analysis and design if applicable, and
adjustment to all existing infrastructure to accommodate
the proposed street improvements;
(ii) Provision of a cash contribution of $150,000.00 towards a
new traffic signal at the intersection of Scotia Street and
2nd Avenue;
(iii) Provision of street trees adjacent to the site where space
permits;
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent to
the site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are to
consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to
meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by the
General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work. Note: As-constructed
documentation will be required that includes photographic
and measured evidence of the installed number of
conduits, their final locations and depths;
(v) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 15
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required;
(vi) Relocation of the existing sewer located in SRW 488912M
and modification of any infrastructure connected or
impacted by the sewer relocation to achieve a sewer
design that is acceptable to the General Manager of
Engineering Services; and
(vii) Upgrading of approximately 90 m of sanitary sewer on
1st Avenue, from the manhole fronting the east property
line of the site to Scotia Street. The estimated size of the
new Sanitary Sewer is 375 mm diameter. Design drawings
and calculations shall be submitted for review, confirmation
of extent of work and pipe size.
6. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
7. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary for connecting to and securing adequate
space for the SEFC NEU, which may include but are not limited to
agreements which:
(i) Grant the City Engineer, and other employees of the city,
access to the building(s) mechanical system and thermal
energy system-related infrastructure within the
development for the purpose of enabling NES connection
and operation, on such terms and conditions as may be
reasonably required by the City;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 16
(ii) Grant the City Engineer, and other employees of the city,
use of and access to suitable space required for the
Energy Transfer Station for the purpose of connecting the
development to the NEU system; and
(iii) Grant the City Engineer, and other employees of the city,
use of and access to suitable space required for the
Neighbourhood Energy Room for the purpose of
peaking/backup heat production and waste heat recovery.
Sustainability
8. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Public Art
9. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please call Eric Fredericksen, Public Art
Program Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Soils
10. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 17
Environmental Protection, City Engineer and Director of
Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate,
the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal
covenants of the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant
to Section 219 of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate
Land Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered
advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of
the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City
including indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of
credit and withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in
a form satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of
all required payments, if any, shall be determined by the
appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
February 27, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 339 East 1st Avenue”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendments to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
February 27, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 339 East 1st Avenue”.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 18
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02760)
4. REZONING: 1133-1155 Melville Street
An application by James KM Cheng Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1133-1155 Melville Street from DD (Downtown) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
36-storey office building with a floor space ratio (FSR) of 21.21.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Chuck We, Vice-President, Oxford Properties, provided opening comments and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence had been received since the application was referred to
Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 12 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
 4 pieces of correspondence opposed.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Sylvain Celaire
Gavin Duffus, Downtown Vancouver BIA
Norm Taylor
The speakers list and receipt of public comments were closed at 7:51 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 19
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by James KM Cheng Architects Inc., on behalf of Oxford
Properties Office Holdings Inc. and 2331355 Ontario Limited, to rezone
1133-1155 Melville Street [Strata Lots 1 to 15, District Lot 185, Strata Plan VR.
1286; PIDs 006-407-781, 006-407-811, 006-407-838, 006-407-871, 006-407-
889, 006-407-943, 006-407-978, 006-408-028, 006-408-044, 006-408-087, 006-
408-117, 006-408-133, 006-408-176, 006-408-206 and 006-408-222
respectively] from DD (Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio to 21.21 (with the proviso
that these lands will not be developed to a floor space ratio greater than 20.34,
as discussed in the Policy Report dated February 27, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 1133-1155 Melville Street”) to allow for the construction of a
36-storey office building with a floor area of 57,636 sq. m (620,390 sq. ft.),
generally as presented in Appendix A of the above-noted report, be approved
subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by James KM Cheng Architects, and
stamped “Received City Planning Department, October 6, 2017”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this
form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to ensure that no shadows will be cast by
this development within the property lines of Harbour Green Park,
during the period of 10 am to 4 pm, between the spring and
autumn equinoxes (March 21 to September 21), including on the
portion of the park at the end of Bute Street.
2. Design development to further visually distinguish the four major
volumetric components of the tower composition, by:
(i) Attributing an individuated texture and pattern for the
surfaces of each volume; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 20
(ii) For the Bute Street- and Lane-facing elevations, a
reduction to the perceived bulk through further volumetric
and/or material articulation to distinguish the top two
stacked box volumes.
3. Design development to maintain and further refine the high quality
materials indicated for the office tower and surrounding
publicly-accessible areas, and to maintain the level of detailing
implied and necessary to accomplish and construct the proposed
design aesthetic with exceptional detailing.
4. Design development to incorporate solar shading devices, with
design informed by energy modelling.
5. Design development to provide continuous weather protection
over the portion of publicly accessible sidewalk that is directly
south of the proposed restaurant patio, from the west property line
to axis 5, at a minimum depth of 1.8 m (6 ft.).
6. Design development to ensure that the predominant glazing
system for the building is a triple-glazed curtain wall.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in underground parking;
(ii) Encouraging natural visual surveillance;
(iii) Visibility at doors, lobbies, stairs and other access routes;
(iv) Site lighting developed with considerations for safety and
security; and
(v) Reduced opportunities for graffiti.
Sustainability
8. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of
the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended
up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63 points (LEED
Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and 1 point for
stormwater or rainwater management, and a 22% reduction in
energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with
registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates which
credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their building

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 21
application, as submitted, incorporates strategies, features or
technologies that will help achieve these credits. The strategy,
along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated into the
drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional
or Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns
with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the application
and the project registration number incorporated into the
drawings. Application for Certification will be required at a
subsequent stage.
9. The applicant commits the proposed development to exceed the
sustainable design and emissions improvements required by the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings and the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, and to demonstrate leadership
in sustainable design as required by the General Policy for Higher
Buildings, through the following measures:
(i) Near-Zero Carbon Design: the proposed development
shall achieve greenhouse gas emissions generally
consistent with a highly efficient all-electric office building,
with features such as heat-recovery chillers and air-source
heat pumps for heating and cooling;
(ii) High-Performance Envelope: the proposed development
shall use a high-performance thermal envelope that meets
or exceed the level described in the rezoning application,
which included:
a. Triple-pane glazing throughout the glazed portions of
the building envelope;
b. A moderate glazing ratio, generally consistent with
60% or less; and
c. Effective opaque wall performance of approximately R7
or better.
(iii) High-Efficiency Ventilation: the proposed development
shall use a highly efficient ventilation system, with features
such as high-efficiency heat recovery ventilators and
demand-control ventilation; and
(iv) Energy Efficiency: the proposed development shall use
highly efficient mechanical and lighting systems, with
features such as low-power fancoils and significant lighting
power reductions secured through tenant lease
agreements.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 22
Landscape
10. Design development to the curvilinear pocket park to activate and
allow for a visual sight line within and along its length, in keeping
with CPTED principles, by the following:
(i) Adding more seating opportunities, interesting places to
pause, bench nodes, artwork, etc.;
(ii) Providing a lower plant type next to the walkway, with taller
plants forming the background; and
(iii) Replacing the bamboo with a sparser plant which allows
visual access.
11. Design development to improve sustainability by significantly
increasing amount of soft landscape on common amenity green
roof terraces on upper levels.
Note to applicant: This should include edible plants, urban
agriculture, additional opportunities for passive seating and
gardening. Urban agriculture plots should follow the City’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and include
infrastructure required, such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc.
Garden plots should be wheelchair accessible. Outdoor spaces
should be visually accessible from common indoor amenity rooms.
As much greenery as possible should be seen from the street.
12. Design development to soften the wall next to restaurant outdoor
terrace by the addition of a planting bed at the bottom of the wall
and a planter at the top.
13. Design development to clearly integrate sustainable rainwater
management features and strategies into the landscape plan.
14. Design development to provide an integrated public art
component into the landscape plan.
15. Replacement of bamboo with a non-invasive species which does
not demand constant maintenance and does not threaten the
integrity of the parkade structure.
Note to Applicant: A clumping type of Bamboo, such as Fargesia,
could be supported.
16. Provision of a revised arborist report that recommends a more
conservative tree removal strategy. The report should be in
context of the proposed form of development and footprint. It
should include a Tree Management Plan, showing scaled and
dimensioned tree protection barriers. The report should include a
tree relocation strategy.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 23
17. Provision at the development permit stage of:
(i) A full Landscape Plan that should be coordinated with the
architectural Site Plan. The Landscape Plan should
illustrate proposed plant materials (with common and
botanical names, plant sizes and quantities), paving, walls,
railings, light fixtures, site grading and other landscape
features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List that
is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape
Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should
match the architectural site plan;
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours
and trellises, and other features. Planter section details
should show dimensioned rootballs to confirm depth of
proposed planting on structures is deep enough to
accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the
future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standard. A
high-efficiency automatic irrigation system is to be provided
for all planted areas;
(iii) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes; and
Note to applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
(iv) Improved graphic readability by deleting all grey tones to
ensure the plan reads well in black and white, or
submission of colour plans only.
Engineering
18. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum
60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab
pour that requires additional street use beyond the already
identified project street use permissions.
19. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 24
20. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future utilities
adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding
shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during
removal of encroaching portions of the shoring systems. Detailed
confirmations of these commitments will be sought at the building
permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required.
Please contact Engineering Services for details.
21. Provision of a separate application for the proposed sidewalk
treatments. Please submit a copy of the landscape plan that
reflects the off-site improvements sought for this application,
where details are not available please provide a written
representation of the improvement.
22. Please place the following note on the landscape plan; “The
landscape plan is to be noted as “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION”
and is to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a
minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any construction
proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site
Inspector for details.”
23. Show standard 4-ft. wide exposed aggregate front filler sidewalk
strip and four-piece exposed aggregate tree surrounds along the
Melville frontage of the site.
24. Delete the small projections shown encroaching into the lane near
gridlines 2 and 3 on page A1.37b.
25. Confirmation that a glass or metal canopy or fabric awning is
proposed to project over the property line and, if so, provision of a
separate application to the General Manager of Engineering
Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over public property.
Note canopies are to be fully demountable and drained to the
buildings internal drainage systems and should consider the final
sidewalk location and widths such that the drip line is achieving
maximum and continuous weather protection for the sidewalk
users.
26. Clearly show the required SRW on the plans and ensure there are
no encroachments into the SRW, and that it is free and clear to
act as City sidewalk including the portion of the north-south ramp
where it exists within the proposed 5.5 m SRW along Melville

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 25
Street. The ramp grades should match the City sidewalk grades
within this area.
27. Provision of an Integrated Rainwater Management Plan that
addresses the following:
(i) The target under the ‘Quantity’ deliverable is to match the
post-development runoff 2-yr/24-hr volume and peak to the
pre-development 2-yr/24-hr volume and peak
(pre-development being the immediate preceding use).
The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curve, whereas the post development estimate shall use
the 2100 IDF curve to account for climate change;
(ii) The target under the ‘Quality’ deliverable is based on
treating 90% of the average runoff (48 mm/24 hrs) to
remove 85% total suspended solids. Preference will be
given to landscape-based treatment systems integrated
within the site’s overall landscaping plan. However
mechanical filtration systems will be considered; and
(iii) It is strongly suggested that the mechanical filtration
system, if pursued, be placed before the detention tank.
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure
ongoing operations of certain stormwater storage,
rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
28. Parking, loading, and bicycle spaces are to be provided as per the
Parking By-law in force at the time of development permit
submission, together with any further provisions for this CD-1 as
approved for inclusion in Schedule C of the Parking By-law.
Note to Applicant: Staff analysis of the application, with
approximately 257 physical spaces plus approximately 71 credited
through provisions in the Parking By-Law, finds a shortfall of
approximately 70 parking spaces below the by-law requirement.
29. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services,
as follows:
Drawings:
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, and
at all entrances. Include lengths between all breakpoints.
Note to Applicant: This is to calculate and confirm slopes
and crossfalls.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 26
(ii) Provision of updated drawings with all parking and loading
spaces numbered, dimensioned and labelled.
(iii) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp or elevator, if required.
Parking Ramps:
(iv) Improve visibility for two-way vehicle movement at turns.
(v) Clarify and note on plans access controls such as
overhead gates, entry/exit ticket booth(s) or ticket
dispenser with lifting arm.
Note to Applicant: the placement of access controls must
ensure that a vehicle is not stopped on a ramp with a slope
in excess of 10% and is located to ensure that inbound
vehicles do not back up in the lane waiting to enter.
Parking Spaces:
(vi) Provide parking curbs or barriers for parking spaces facing
pedestrian circulation routes and other parking spaces.
(vii) It is recommended that disability parking spaces be located
along flat sections of the parkade (five disability spaces
would have to be relocated).
Note to Applicant: As recommended by Bunt & Associates
Traffic Study
(viii) Provide detailed information as to how and a design to
enable members of the car sharing organization access
into the building’s underground parking 24 hours a day,
7 days a week.
Loading Bays:
(ix) Provision of a Loading Management Plan to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services, in support of the requested loading relaxation.
(x) Two (2) of the Class A loading spaces to be provided at
loading level.
(xi) Provision of standard loading throat and additional loading
bay width for the second and subsequent Class B loading
spaces.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 27
(xii) Provision of convenient, internal access to/from Class A
and Class B loading spaces from/to all site uses.
(xiii) Provision of a Loading Management Plan, including:
a. How the loading facility will operate;
b. Management of the facility, including on-site
loading manager;
c. Size of the largest delivery vehicle delivering to the
site and the expected frequency of all of the
deliveries;
d. Specify routing of the trucks from the arterial streets
to and from the loading space; and
e. Clarify the largest truck that the loading space(s)
are designed to accommodate and provide all
vehicle dimensions.
(xiv) Provision of updated review of the parking and loading
design by a qualified Transportation consultant.
Note to Applicant: This must analyse vehicle and truck
turning movements, and consider vehicles parked on the
opposite side of the lane.
(xv) If possible, it is recommended that the garbage compactor
be angled to allow for more efficient waste pick-up and
drop-off movements.
Note to Applicant: As recommended by Bunt & Associates
Traffic Study.
Bicycle spaces:
(xvi) Provision of automatic door openers on all doors providing
access into each of the bicycle rooms and on any doors
located on the intended route to be used by cyclists to
travel between the building exterior and the bicycle rooms.
30. Provide detailed information as to how the supporting bicycle
amenities noted in the Green Mobility Plan will operate, including
cost to use the facilities, hours of operation, if it is available for use
by members of the general public.
31. As outlined in the Green Mobility Plan provided by
Bunt & Associates, provision of a letter of commitment to the
post-occupancy monitoring of the TDM measures proposed, to
include:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 28
(i) Comprehensive travel demand survey of the development
after one year of full operation;
(ii) Travel mode survey for the all employers/employees with a
minimum 90% response rate;
(iii) Current and future TDM measures being implemented and
the uptake;
(iv) Summer and winter data for the mode split and TDM
uptake; and
(v) Submit copies of the surveys and updated TDM plans to
the Parking Management Branch at the City of Vancouver
for review.
Note to Applicant: A $10,000 security deposit will be
required to secure delivery of the TDM measures.
Social Policy and Projects
32. Provide a Sustainable Food System Plan to include a minimum of
three food systems as described in the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, and to the satisfaction of the
Director of Social Policy.
Note to Applicant: The application identifies food assets that can
count towards the required three food assets that must be
delivered as part of the development. The three identified food
assets are: Edible landscaping; community food market; and food
composting. The following comments outline ways to strengthen
the submission.
(i) Edible Landscaping: Recommend demonstrating
commitment to edible landscaping within the overall
landscaping plans. No mention of edible plants is found in
the landscaping plan. Staff recommend listing specific
location and types of edibles. Food for local fauna is not
considered edible landscaping;
(ii) Community food market: Staff are encouraged that the
lobby may be designed for hosting markets. Incorporate
electrical outlets in the front plaza and direct access to
Class B loading bay. Recommend that the community food
markets be seasonal; and
(iii) Food Composting: Staff are encouraged to see that an
in-vessel bio-digester could be available for use by
tenants. Indicate location of proposed on-site composter
on plans. Ensure that it is sufficient space is allocated, and
that it is easily accessible by all tenants (particularly the
restaurant/retail).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 29
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Cancellation of Strata Plan VR1286 and the dissolution of the
strata corporation.
2. Provision of a building setback and surface statutory right-of-way
(SRW) for public pedestrian use over a portion of the site,
adjacent to Melville Street, to achieve a 5.5 m metre offset
distance from the back of the existing curb to the building face. A
survey plan prepared by a British Columbia Land Surveyor,
showing the existing dimension from the back of the City curb to
the existing property line to determine the final setback and SRW
width, is required. The SRW will be free of any encumbrance such
as structure, stairs, door swing, vents or grates and plantings at
grade, and is to accommodate within the SRW agreement the
underground parking Levels P1 to P5 and portions of building
levels 1a and above.
3. Provision of a revised or replacement surface Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) for public pedestrian use on the east side of
the site to encompass the proposed path connecting Melville
Street to the lane north and any portion of the plaza space
intended as public space as required by the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
4. Release of Covenant J51825 as modified by BB400469 (provision
of amenity space and 350 off-street parking spaces) prior to
building occupancy. Note: The agreement stipulates that this
covenant will expire upon demolition of the building.
5. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 122746M, extended
by L59839 (commercial crossings) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment
will satisfactorily address this condition.
6. Subject to approval of the proposed amendment to Schedule C of
the Parking By-law, the Director of Planning and General Manager
of Engineering Services, on conditions that are satisfactory to
them, may allow the substitution of up to 8 shared vehicles and up

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 30
to 8 shared vehicle parking spaces for required parking spaces at
a 1:5 ratio, or as a lesser number of shared vehicles and shared
vehicle spaces in combination with Payment-in-Lieu of parking, or
other measures which may be available to them to satisfy the
required parking for the project.
If provision of commercial shared vehicles is supported at this site:
Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure the
provision, operation and maintenance of up to 8 Shared Vehicle(s)
and the provision and maintenance of up to 8 Shared Vehicle
Parking Space(s) for use exclusively by such Shared Vehicle(s),
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services, including
the following:
(i) Provide up to 8 Shared Vehicle(s) to the development for a
minimum period of 3 years;
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicle(s);
Note to Applicant: Shared Vehicle Organization must be for
two-way car share.
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space(s)
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles;
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space(s);
(iv) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle;
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the Director
of Legal Services may require and including a covenant
under section 219 of the Land Title Act of British Columbia,
a statutory right of way, or other instrument satisfactory to
the Director of Legal Services, securing these conditions;
and
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a car share
company indicating their willingness to supply car share
vehicles on the site at building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Shared vehicle spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9 m.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 31
7. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City, and that all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services are
provided. No development permit for the site will be issued until
the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required;
(ii) Provision of a new 1.22 m (4 ft.) exposed aggregate front
boulevard and a light broom-finish saw-cut concrete
sidewalk along Melville Street and light broom-finish
saw-cut concrete sidewalk for the SRW space along
Melville Street;
(iii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent to the site to
current standards, including a review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy. A lighting design is required;
(iv) Removal of the existing driveway crossing, and
construction of standard curb and gutter on Melville Street;
(v) Provision of signal modifications at Melville and Bute,
through provision of LED intersection lighting (all 4 corners
are to receive new or upgraded LED lights);
(vi) Provision of signal modifications at Melville and Thurlow,
through provision of LED intersection lighting (all 4 corners
are to receive new or upgraded LED lights) and countdown
timers;
(vii) Provision of a raised pedestrian crossing of the lane north
of 1100 Melville at the proposed SRW location;
(viii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication ducts
sized to meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by
the General Manager of Engineering Services and in
conformance with applicable electrical codes and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 32
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the
start of any associated street work. Note: As-constructed
documentation will be required that includes photographic
and measured evidence of the installed number of
conduits, and their final locations and depths;
(ix) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits; and
(x) Provision of the following sewer upgrades:
a. Upgrading of the existing 200 mm sanitary sewer
along the lane north of Melville Street, between
Thurlow and Bute Streets (approximately 160 m).
The estimated size of the upgraded sanitary sewer
is 300 mm;
b. Upgrading of the existing 200 mm sanitary sewer
along Bute Street, between the lane north of
Melville Street and Pender Street (approximately
36 m). The estimated size of the upgraded sanitary
sewer is 300 mm; and
c. Upgrading of the existing 300 mm sanitary sewer
along Pender Street between Bute and Jervis
Streets at (approximately 162 m). The estimated
size of the upgraded sanitary sewer is 450 mm.
Note: The final pipe size is to be determined through a
detailed design process and, in all cases, be sized to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
8. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way.
Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility
network to accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 33
Sustainability
9. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the
building to report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the
building as a whole and certain common areas and building
systems. Such an agreement will further provide for the hiring of a
qualified service provider to assist the building owner for a
minimum of three years in collecting and submitting energy use
data to the City.
Public Art
10. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please contact Eric Fredericksen, Public Art
Program Manager, 604.871.6002, to discuss your application.
Soils
11. If applicable:
(a) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Services, Real
Estate and Facilities Management (Environmental
Contamination Team);
(b) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(c) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into
a remediation agreement for the remediation of the site
and any contaminants which have migrated from the site
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Planning, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until a Certificate of
Compliance satisfactory to the City for the on-site and
off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, has been provided to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 34
Development Limit Covenant
12. Register a Section 219 Covenant against the lands which limits
that floor space ratio to 20.34 and that the additional density
authorized by the CD-1 By-law represents the density previously
transferred to 1177-1189 Melville Street (formerly 550 Bute Street)
and may not be used on the site at 1133-1155 Melville Street.
Non-stratification Covenant
13. Enter into a Covenant pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title
Act prohibiting both the separate sale and the strata subdivision of
all commercial and office floor space.
Commercial Linkage Contribution
14. Pay to the City a contribution of $5,586,255 which the applicant
has offered to the City. Payment is to be made prior to enactment
of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City, and in a form and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services.
The $5,586,255 is to be allocated toward funding of childcare
facilities and/or affordable housing in and around the Metro Core
area.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of
the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of
the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
February 27, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1133-1155 Melville Street”, be
approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendments to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
February 27, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1133-1155 Melville Street”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 35
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendments to the
Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
February 27, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1133-1155 Melville Street”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02761)
5. TEXT AMENDMENT: Minor Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law to
Enable Liquor Retail Stores in Grocery Stores
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to enable liquor retail stores in
grocery stores. A new definition for Grocery Store with Liquor Store and
amended definitions for Liquor Store and Neighbourhood Grocery Store are
proposed for consistency with the definitions used in Provincial regulation.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
* * * * *
At 8:06 pm, Councillor Bremner declared a conflict of interest on Item 5 due to previous work
performed related to the topic of this item. He left the Council Chamber and did not return.
* * * * *
Staff Opening Comments
The General Manager, Development, Buildings and Licensing, introduced the application and
responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 36
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred for public hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
Mayor Robertson called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Steve Moriarty
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:13 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to enable liquor
stores to locate within grocery stores, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated March 6, 2018 entitled “Minor Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law to Enable Liquor Retail Stores in Grocery Stores”, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02762)
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 8:15 pm.
* * * * *