REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 17, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, April 17, 2018,
at 9:35 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck*
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal*
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
CONDOLENCES – Patricia McSherry
Mayor Robertson expressed condolences on behalf of Council to the family and friends of
Patricia McSherry, a member of the Vancouver Civic Theatres Board, who passed away
recently, and invited Councillor Ball to say a few words.
Councillor Ball noted Ms. McSherry’s greatest legacy is on Granville Island, with the creation of
PerformanceWorks. She thanked Council for their condolences and noted she would pass this
on to Ms. McSherry’s family.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed
by the city;
(d) the security of the property of the city;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – March 13, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of March 13, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Public Hearing – March 13, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing meeting of March 13, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 3
3. Regular Council (City Finance and Services) – March 14, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council (City Finance and Services) meeting of
March 14, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Business Licence Hearing – March 15, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Business Licence Hearing meeting of March 15, 2018, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
Mayor Robertson advised requests to speak to Administrative Report 8 had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Administrative Report dated April 4, 2018, entitled “2018 Community Services
and Other Social Grants” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities on April 18, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02740)
At 9:42 am, Councillor Reimer declared Conflict of Interest related to Administrative Report 2, as
she is a member of the Green Municipal Fund Council.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council adopt Communication 1, Administrative Reports 1, 2, 4 to 7, 9, and 10,
and Policy Reports 1 to 4, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Reimer ineligible for the vote on Administrative Report 2 due to Conflict of Interest)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 4
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Opioid Crisis Update and Recommendations for Mental Health and Addictions
De-Stigmatization Grants
a. Opioid Crisis Update
b. Mental Health and Addictions De-Stigmatization – Grants
March 29, 2018
Mary Clare Zak, Managing Director of Social Policy and Projects, and Dianna Hurford, Social
Policy and Projects, provided an update on the opioid crisis, and responded to questions. Colin
Ross and Karen Ward, both from the Persons with Lived Experience Advisory Committee,
provided comments on the importance of this work and the need for de-stigmatization about
mental health and drug use, and the need for decriminalization.
Dr. Reka Gustafson, Medical Health Officer, and Christ Van Veen, both from Vancouver Coastal
Health also provided an update on the opioid crisis a public health, perspective, including
statistics on overdoses and deaths resulting from overdose, acute overdose risk management
and outreach team, treatment and recovery, and community action teams.
Dr. Christy Sutherland, Portland Hotel Society, spoke about the Society’s harm reduction model
of care, injectable opiate agonist treatment and its successes in treating addiction and moving
people along the continuum of care.
Dr. Gustafson, Ms. Zak, Ms. Ward, and Mr. Ross, along with Dr. Patty Daly, Chief Medical
Health Officer, Vancouver Coastal Health, Chief Darrell Reid, Vancouver Fire & Rescue
Services, responded to questions.
Mayor Robertson noted requests to speak to Report Reference 1b had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council refer the Administrative Report dated March 29, 2018, entitled “Mental
Health and Addictions De-Stigmatization – Grants” to the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities Meeting on April 18, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02731)
(Councillor Affleck absent for the vote)
2. Cambie Corridor – Phase 3
April 6, 2018
Mayor Robertson advised requests to speak to the report had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 5
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council refer the Administrative Report dated April 6, 2018, entitled
“Cambie Corridor – Phase 3” and the memorandum from the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability dated April 12, 2018, entitled “Cambie
Corridor revisions resulting from community input: policy amendments RTS 12276” to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday,
April 18, 2018, in order to hear from speakers, starting at 6 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02732)
(Councillors Affleck, Deal, and Jang absent for the vote)
Gil Kelley, General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and Susan Haid,
Assistant Director of Planning, Vancouver South, provided opening remarks, noting this plan is
a big change for the community, and introduced the team working on the plan.
Lil Ronalds, Senior Planner, Jessie Gresley-Jones, and Kirsten Behler, all from Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability, presented phase 3 of the Cambie Corridor project.
* * * * *
During the presentation, Council recessed at 12:05 pm and reconvened at 2:09 pm.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the length of the meeting be extended to complete the business of the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Ball, Bremner and De Genova absent for the vote)
* * * * *
Ms. Ronalds, Ms. Haid, Mr. Gresley-Jones, and Ms. Behler, along with the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions.
COMMUNICATIONS
1. Vancouver City Council Representative to the Federation of Canadian
Municipalities Board
A. THAT Council rescind its resolution of May 16, 2017, appointing Councillor
Tim Stevenson to stand for election as the Vancouver City Council representative
on the Federation of Canadian Municipalities Board, effective immediately.
B. THAT Council authorize Councillor Heather Deal to stand for election as the
Vancouver City Council representative on the Federation of Canadian
Municipalities Board, effective immediately and ending November 4, 2018.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND (Vote No. Vote No. 02757)
A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 6
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. Funding Application to Natural Resources Canada’s Electric Vehicle and
Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Deployment Initiative
March 27, 2018
THAT Council approve a funding application to Natural Resource Canada’s Electric
Vehicle and Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Deployment Initiative for $300,000 towards
the City of Vancouver Electric Vehicle Charging Corridor Enhancement Project.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02733)
2. Federation of Canadian Municipalities Green Municipal Fund Loan Agreements
March 20, 2018
THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director
of Finance, to enter into the following loan agreements with the Federation of Canadian
Municipalities (Green Municipal Fund):
• Burrard Bridge Renewal and Transportation Improvement Project - $5 million; and
• Canada’s First Passive House Fire Hall: Vancouver’s Fire Hall 17 Project - $2 million
on terms as generally outlined in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
March 20, 2018, entitled “Federation of Canadian Municipalities Green Municipal Fund
Loan Agreements”, and in place of the City’s debenture program.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02734)
3. Changes to Delegated Authorities and Policies for Procurement and Budgets
February 13, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT current limits on Council delegated authority (also referred to as a
“Standing Authority”) with respect to procurement be updated to reflect best
practice, industry standards and the needs of the organization as described in
the Administrative Report dated February 13, 2018, entitled “Changes to
Delegated Authorities and Policies for Procurement and Budgets” and that
Council concurrently approve the Procurement Policy attached as Appendix A to
the above-noted report.
B. THAT current limits on Council delegated authority with respect to capital
budgets be updated to reflect best practice, industry standards and the needs of
the organization as described in the Administrative Report dated February 13,
2018, entitled “Changes to Delegated Authorities and Policies for Procurement
and Budgets” and that Council concurrently approve the Capital Budget Policy
attached as Appendix B to the above-noted report.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 7
C. THAT current limits on Council delegated authority with respect to operating
budgets be updated to reflect best practice, industry standards and the needs of
the organization as described in this Report and that Council concurrently
approve the Operating Budget Policy attached as Appendix C to the
Administrative Report dated February 13, 2018, entitled “Changes to Delegated
Authorities and Policies for Procurement and Budgets”.
D. THAT the new policies referred to in A through C above (the “Policies”):
a. become effective on June 1, 2018 or such earlier date determined by
the Director of Finance so as to coincide with the establishment of
processes and changes to enterprise systems to ensure the Policies
can be implemented effectively;
b. the Director of Finance provide copies of the Policies to the Park Board,
Police Board and Library Board and request that they work with the
Director of Finance to adopt a similar version of the Procurement Policy
as a policy for their board or affiliate and to adopt operating and capital
budget policies that align effectively with the new Capital Budget Policy
and operating Budget Policy; and
c. the City Manager, Director of Finance, and City Solicitor be authorized
to make all such administrative amendments and modifications as are
considered appropriate from time to time to the Policies to reflect
changes in organizational structure or staff titles, to incorporate the
policies of the Library, Police, Park Board and the City’s affiliates that
may be adopted by them from time to time to better align with the City’s
Policies, and any other elements of the Policies other than the elements
which legally delegate authority reserved to Council from Council to City
staff.
E. THAT, upon the Procurement Policy taking effect, the Procurement Policy will
supersede and replace those delegated authorities related to procurement that
are contained within Council’s resolution of December 15, 2009, entitled
“Changes to Council-Delegated Authority to Contract (Standing Authorities)”.
F. THAT, upon the Capital Budget Policy and Operating Budget Policy taking effect,
the Capital Budget Policy and Operating Budget Policy will supersede and
replace those delegated authorities related to capital and operating budgets that
are contained within Council’s resolution of March 28, 1996, entitled “Changes to
Administrative Authorities”.
CARRIED AND
A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02719)
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner and De Genova opposed)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 8
4. Property Taxation: 2018 Property Tax Distribution and 2017 Tax Exemptions
April 4, 2018
A. THAT Council instruct the Director of Finance to calculate the 2018 general
purpose tax rates for all property classes to achieve a tax share of ~54.7%
residential and ~45.3% non-residential.
B. THAT Council receives the report on 2017 tax exemptions for information.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02736)
5. 2017 Council Remuneration and Expenses
March 19, 2018
This report was received for information.
6. 2017 Annual Financial Report
March 26, 2018
This report was received for information.
7. 2017 Statement of Financial Information
March 19, 2018
THAT Council approve the 2017 Statement of Financial Information for filing with the
Ministry of Community, Sport and Cultural Development under the Financial Information
Act.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02740)
8. 2018 Community Services and Other Social Grants
April 4, 2018
This report was referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities Meeting
on April 18, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
9. Social Grant Towards Indigenous Mother’s Day Traditional Pow Wow
March 1, 2018
THAT Council approve a one-time grant of $30,000 to Britannia Community Services
Centre Society to re-establish the Mother’s Day Traditional Pow Wow honouring
Indigenous women. Source of funding is the 2018 Social Policy Grants Operating
budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02756)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 9
10. Still Creek Enhancement Project – Renfrew Street and East 14th Avenue
March 23, 2018
A. THAT Council approve a multi-year capital project budget of $170,000 for the
construction of a viewing platform at Renfrew Street and East 14th Avenue, to be
funded from the Still Creek Greenway Enhancement Fund and to be added to the
2015-2018 Capital Plan.
B. THAT Council approve a 2018 Capital Expenditure Budget of $170,000 for this
project, to be offset by a corresponding reduction in the 2018 Capital Expenditure
Budget for the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement and Additions Program.
C. THAT, upon completion of the viewing platform, the Engineering Department
annual operating budget be increased by $12,000 for structural and horticultural
maintenance, subject to the 2019 annual budget process.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02735)
POLICY REPORTS
1. Heritage Register Addition – 349 West Georgia Street – Former Main Post Office
March 27, 2018
THAT Council add to the Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘A’ evaluation category, the
former Main Post Office at 349 West Georgia Street.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02742)
2. CD-1 Rezoning: 6829-6869 Cambie Street
April 3, 2018
A. THAT the application by GBL Architects on behalf of Cambie Heights Homes
Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 6829-6869 Cambie Street [Lots 28-30,
Block 896, District Lot 526, Plan 10198; PIDs: 009-592-857, 009-592-865, and
009-592-881 respectively], from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR)
from 0.70 to 2.53 and to increase the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 21.0 m
(69 ft.), to permit the development of a six-storey residential building and four
two-storey townhouses, containing a total of 65 market residential units, be
referred to a public hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by GBL Architects, received March 3, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6829-6869
Cambie Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 10
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at public hearing.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Parking By-law be amended
generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6829-6869 Cambie Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Parking By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1 By-law.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6829-6869 Cambie Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivsion By-law at the time of enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02743)
3. CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue
April 3, 2018
A. THAT the application by Cornerstone Architecture, on behalf of Peak Real Estate
Marketing Ltd., to rezone 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue [PID: 006-779-514;
Lot 13, Block K, Section 42, THSL, Plan 11660] from C-1 (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio
from 1.20 to 3.00 and the building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 21.3 m (70 ft.) to
permit the development of a six-storey mixed-use building with at-grade
commercial uses and 55 dwelling units secured as for-profit affordable rental
housing, be referred to a public hearing, together with:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 11
a. plans prepared by Cornerstone Architecture, received May 12, 2017;
b. draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295
East 22nd Avenue”; and
c. the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd
Avenue” for consideration at the public hearing.
B. THAT, if after public hearing Council approves in principle this rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue”, the
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been agreed
to and signed by the applicant and its mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the
CD-1 By-law contemplated by this report.
C. THAT, if the application is referred to a Public Hearing, the application to
amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this CD-1, generally as set
out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue”, be referred to the same
Public Hearing.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the Public Hearing.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended to include this CD-1 in Schedule B, generally as set out in Appendix C
of the Policy Report dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3281-3295
East 22nd Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of the enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 12
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02737)
4. CD-1 Rezoning: 8599 Oak Street
April 3, 2018
A. THAT the application by NORR Architects Planners Inc. on behalf of Maiway
Investment Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 8599 Oak Street [Lots 15 and
16, except the east 7 feet now road, of Lot 33, Block B, District Lots 319, 323 and
324, Plan 1685; PIDs:014-424-223 and 014-424-231 respectively] from RM-3A
(Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 1.35 to 2.5 and to increase the height
from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 20.0 m (66 ft.), to permit the development of a six-storey
residential building, containing a total of 36 for-profit affordable rental housing
units, be referred to a public hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by NORR Architects Planners Inc., received
December 12, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
8599 Oak Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after public hearing, Council approves in principle this rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated April 3, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 8599 Oak Street”, the Director of
Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement
By-law for enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and
signed by the property owner and their mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of
the CD-1 By-law contemplated by the above-noted report.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 13
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02744)
BY-LAWS
Mayor Robertson noted By-law 11 had been withdrawn.
Councillors Ball and Jang both advised they had reviewed the proceedings with regard to
By-law 6 and would be voting on the enactment.
Councillors Ball, Bremner, Jang and Reimer all advised they had reviewed the proceedings with
regard to By-law 7 and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 10 inclusive, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to assess real property to defray 2017 costs for the South Fraser Street
Collective Parking Project (By-law No. 12067)
2. A By-law to assess real property to defray 2017 costs for the East Hastings Street
Collective Parking Project (By-law No. 10068)
3. A By-law to assess real property to defray 2017 maintenance costs for the Trounce Alley
and Blood Alley Square Local Improvement Project (By-law No. 12069)
4. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 698 East 64th Avenue (8027, 8029, and
8031 Fraser Street) (By-law No. 12070)
5. A By-law to amend the Vancouver Civic Theatres Board By-law No. 3941 regarding an
increase in the number of Board members (By-law No. 12071)
6. A By-law to amend CD-1 (426) By-law No. 8943 to increase floor space ratio (1128 West
Georgia Street (1119 Alberni Street formerly 1120 West Georgia Street)) (By-law No.
12072)
7. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (371 West 2nd Avenue) (By-law No. 12073)
(Councillor Affleck ineligible for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 14
8. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 424 West Pender Street (By-law No. 12074)
9. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 454 West Pender Street (By-law No. 12075)
10. A By-law to amend Energy Utility System By-law No. 9552 regarding the service area
(By-law No. 12076)
11. A By-law to amend Energy Utility System By-law No. 9552 regarding the service area –
WITHDRAWN
12. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3868-3898 Rupert Street and 3304-3308
East 22nd Avenue (By-law No. 12077)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development: CD-1 – 5058 Cambie Street
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 5058 Cambie Street
(5050 Cambie Street being the application address) be approved generally as illustrated
in the Development Application Number DP-2017-00748., prepared by Shift
Architecture, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development
Services”, on December 7, 2018, provided that the Director of Planning may impose
conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the
development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Approval of Form of Development: CD-1 – 262 West King Edward Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 262 West King
Edward Avenue be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application
Number DP-2017-0767, prepared by Yamamoto Architects, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on December 15, 2017, provided
that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 15
3. Approval of Form of Development: 4983-5007 Quebec Street
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 4983 – 5007 Quebec
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2017-00667, prepared by Cornerstone Architecture Inc., and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on February 6, 2018, provided that
the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
B. Motions on Notice
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted a Leave of Absence for Personal Reasons from
evening meetings to be held on May 24, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02746)
2. Jurisdiction, Land Use and the Biodiversity of Langara Golf Course
Mayor Robertson advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
THAT the motion entitled “Jurisdiction, Land Use and the Biodiversity of Langara Golf
Course” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on April 18, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02745)
3. Expediting Development Permit Applications for New Supply of the Most
Affordable Rental Housing
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is in a housing crisis and affordable rental housing is out of reach for
many individuals and families in the city of Vancouver;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 16
2. Development Permit and Building Permit wait times continue to increase in the
City of Vancouver despite a 30% increase to rezoning fees and 10% increase to
other permit fees by the City of Vancouver in 2015;
3. Housing affordability can be affected by long delays in city development and
building processes and can contribute to an increased cost for developers that is
passed on to both owners and renters;
4. The rental vacancy rate in Vancouver has not seen a significant increase and
there have not been significant impacts to the affordability of rental housing since
the City of Vancouver implemented the Empty Homes Tax, and Short Term
Rental policy;
5. During the re-zoning process several large developments, recommended by staff
and approved by Council, have faced long wait times for permits to allow
affordable rental supply to be built. Also, applications for single family residential
homes to complete secondary suites and laneway homes, that are intended to be
rented, are facing long wait times.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to examine policy that would expedite development
permits for purpose built rental housing; using affordability as a metric, to
determine projects most suitable to be fast-tracked for development permit
approval, providing applicants meet all City of Vancouver standards;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff, to explore the possibility of implementing
conditions to applications eligible to be expedited, similar to covenants the City of
Vancouver requires of some Non-Profit Housing operators and owners, including
regulations that affect maximum rents that can be charged and maintained,
regardless of a change in tenancy of rental units.
B. THAT Council direct staff to perform an analysis of the impact that increased wait
times, in the development application and permit process, can have on the cost
of housing in the city of Vancouver.
referred/lost
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT A above be referred to staff as part of existing work underway and to ascertain if it
conflicts with previous decisions made around housing and the Housing Re:set.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02720)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr and De Genova opposed)
The referral having carried, Council conducted a separate vote on B.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 17
B. THAT Council direct staff to perform an analysis of the impact that increased wait
times, in the development application and permit process, can have on the cost
of housing in the city of Vancouver.
LOST (Vote No. 02721)
(Councillors Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT the following be referred to staff as part of existing work underway, and to
ascertain if it conflicts with previous decisions made around housing and the Housing
Re:set:
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is in a housing crisis and affordable rental housing is out of
reach for many individuals and families in the city of Vancouver;
2. Development Permit and Building Permit wait times continue to increase
in the City of Vancouver despite a 30% increase to rezoning fees and
10% increase to other permit fees by the City of Vancouver in 2015;
3. Housing affordability can be affected by long delays in city development
and building processes and can contribute to an increased cost for
developers that is passed on to both owners and renters;
4. The rental vacancy rate in Vancouver has not seen a significant increase
and there have not been significant impacts to the affordability of rental
housing since the City of Vancouver implemented the Empty Homes Tax,
and Short Term Rental policy;
5. During the re-zoning process several large developments, recommended
by staff and approved by Council, have faced long wait times for permits
to allow affordable rental supply to be built. Also, applications for single
family residential homes to complete secondary suites and laneway
homes, that are intended to be rented, are facing long wait times.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to examine policy
that would expedite development permits for purpose built rental housing; using
affordability as a metric, to determine projects most suitable to be fast-tracked for
development permit approval, providing applicants meet all City of Vancouver
standards;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff, to explore the possibility of implementing
conditions to applications eligible to be expedited, similar to covenants the City of
Vancouver requires of some Non-Profit Housing operators and owners, including
regulations that affect maximum rents that can be charged and maintained,
regardless of a change in tenancy of rental units.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 18
4. Support for City Policy to Allow Infants in the Care of a Council Member to be
Permitted in the Council Chamber During Meetings
* * * * *
At 4:21 pm, Councillor De Genova declared Conflict of Interest on this matter as she has a 7
month old child. She left the room and did not return until the conclusion of the vote on this
matter.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
WHEREAS
1. January 17, 2018, Vancouver City Council unanimously adopted the
recommendations for “Vancouver: A City for All Women, Women’s Equity
Strategy 2018-2028;”
2. The Healthy City Strategy strives to create a healthy city for all and strives to
focus on inclusiveness and gender equality;
3. Often meetings of Council can run concurrently, and a Council member may be
required to stay at City Hall for meetings from early in the morning to late in the
evening, with little time for breaks;
4. There is currently no policy that explicitly supports parents, by allowing infants
and children under the age of 2 into the Council Chamber; from time to time and
when necessary;
5. Family friendly policies could help to increase the participation of women and all
parents of young children in seeking elected civic office in the City of Vancouver;
6. The current Procedure By-law No. 9756, states in Section 6, Meeting
Procedures, Entry on the Floor, “Only Council members, and those persons
permitted by the Chair or City Clerk to do so, may enter the Council floor during a
meeting;
7. March 8, 2018, the British Columbia Legislature passed “Motion 5 - Amendment
to Standing Orders to allow the presence of infants.” This historic policy will allow
members of the legislative assembly to bring infants and children under the age
of two years old into the chambers of the legislative assembly;
8. November 2017, a report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House
Affairs titled “Support for Members of Parliament with young children,” was
published under the authority of the Speaker of the House of Commons. This
report recommends that policy be changed to include language that would allow
infants to be present in the chamber, when being cared for by a member.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 19
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct the City Clerk to work with the appropriate staff to draft
changes to the City of Vancouver Procedure By-law to explicitly allow infants and
children under two years of age, to be permitted in Council Chamber and any
other meetings of Council, when being cared for by a member of Council.
FURTHER THAT the City Clerk include this in the current review of the
Procedure By-law and bring recommendations to Council with any revisions for
consideration before August 2018.
B. THAT any recommendations and changes to the City of Vancouver Procedure
By-law to allow for infants and children to be present at meetings of Council,
when cared for by a Council member, be sent to the Vancouver Park Board, the
Vancouver Public Library Board and the Vancouver Police Board.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02722)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
* * * * *
Councillor De Genova returned to the meeting at 4:30 pm.
* * * * *
5. Taking the ABCD Bias Off the Ballot
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. The strength of a democracy is judged on a number of factors but none more so
than real or perceived bias and barriers in the electoral system.
2. The current ballot for City Council is ordered alphabetically by last name.
3. Currently 60% City Councillors have last names that start with A, B, C, or D, even
though only 33% of the Council candidates who ran in the last election and
by-election had last names starting with A, B, C or D.
4. An alphabetical bias in the ballot would have a particularly negative impact on
people who have last names that are Chinese, South Asian, Vietnamese,
Korean, Japanese or Latino - among others - as people from these cultures are
much less likely to have last names that start with A, B, C, or D.
5. The original writers of the Vancouver Charter contemplated alphabetical bias
being a problem and provided for a ballot order alternative in Section 79 of the
Vancouver Charter which enables the ballot for Council candidates to be ordered
by random draw.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 20
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to draft a by-law for Council
consideration that would allow for the Council candidates in the 2018 general election to
be listed on the ballot in random order per the provisions of Section 79 of the Vancouver
Charter.
FURTHER THAT when the Chief Election Officer reports back to Council in the “2018
Election Review”, they specifically review the ballot order and provide information on
how the new process worked for candidates, voters and staff.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Affleck
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the resolved be struck and the following substituted:
A. THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council, in the interest of
creating the fairest, most democratic, and most level the playing field for all
candidates vying for municipal elected office in the City of Vancouver in 2018,
direct staff to report back to Council within 30 days with recommendations
including further operating funds required to implement, for a by-law, as specified
under Section 79.1 (Order of names on ballot determined by lot) of Division 10 of
the Vancouver Charter (Arrangements for Voting), to permit the order of
candidate names on the upcoming 2018 Vancouver municipal election ballot to
be determined by lot in order to negate any perception of an unfair advantage
that may result from the current alphabetical ballot order employed by the City in
relation to the well-documented “Ballot Order” / “Name Order” Effect.
B. THAT the recommendations from staff for a randomized 2018 municipal election
ballot name order should include:
i. An exploration of the possibility of removing any reference to party
affiliation on the ballot; and
ii. To have several randomized ballots with different random ordering of
names to be produced and used simultaneously during the 2018
municipal election such that any “Ballot Order” / “Name Order” Effect is
further reduced in the interest of creating the fairest, most democratic,
most level the playing field for all candidates.
C. THAT When the Chief Election Officer reports back to Council in the
“2018 Election Review”, they specifically review the ballot order and provide
information on how the new process worked for candidates, voters and staff.
amended
The City Clerk noted that in the amendment, B(ii) would violate Section 79.1 of the Vancouver
Charter which permits only one lot to be drawn when randomizing the order of names on
election ballots. Council agreed to remove B(ii) from consideration.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 21
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as D to the amendment:
THAT Council direct staff investigate the possibility of adding a photo of
candidates to the ballot and associated costs.
CARRIED (Vote No.02723)
(Councillors Ball, De Genova and Reimer opposed)
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
THAT A be amended as follows:
• Insert the words “with a by-law to allow for a randomized election ballot” following the
phrase “report back to Council”,
• Insert the words “information regarding” be following the word “further”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02724)
(Councillors Deal, Jang and Reimer opposed)
Council requested to separate the vote on the components of the motion as amended.
A. THAT Vancouver City Council, in the interest of creating the fairest, most
democratic, and most level the playing field for all candidates vying for municipal
elected office in the City of Vancouver in 2018, direct staff to report back with a
by-law to allow for a randomized election ballot to Council within 30 days with
recommendations including further information regarding operating funds
required to implement, for a by-law, as specified under Section 79.1 (Order of
names on ballot determined by lot) of Division 10 of the Vancouver Charter
(Arrangements for Voting), to permit the order of candidate names on the
upcoming 2018 Vancouver municipal election ballot to be determined by lot in
order to negate any perception of an unfair advantage that may result from the
current alphabetical ballot order employed by the City in relation to the
well-documented “Ballot Order” / “Name Order” Effect.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02725)
(Councillors Ball, Bremner and De Genova opposed)
B. THAT the recommendations from staff for a randomized 2018 municipal election
ballot name order should include an exploration of the possibility of removing any
reference to party affiliation on the ballot.
LOST (Vote No. 02726)
(Councillors Ball, Bremner, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor
Robertson opposed)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 22
C. THAT when the Chief Election Officer reports back to Council in the “2018
Election Review”, they specifically review the ballot order and provide information
on how the new process worked for candidates, voters and staff.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02727)
(Councillors Ball, Bremner and De Genova opposed)
D. THAT Council direct staff to investigate possibility of adding a photo of
candidates to the ballot and associated costs.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02728)
(Councillors Bremner, Carr, De Genova and Reimer opposed)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. The strength of a democracy is judged on a number of factors but none more so
than real or perceived bias and barriers in the electoral system;
2. The current ballot for City Council is ordered alphabetically by last name;
3. Currently 60% City Councillors have last names that start with A, B, C, or D, even
though only 33% of the Council candidates who ran in the last election and by-
election had last names starting with A, B, C or D;
4. An alphabetical bias in the ballot would have a particularly negative impact on
people who have last names that are Chinese, South Asian, Vietnamese,
Korean, Japanese or Latino - among others - as people from these cultures are
much less likely to have last names that start with A, B, C, or D;
5. The original writers of the Vancouver Charter contemplated alphabetical bias
being a problem and provided for a ballot order alternative in Section 79 of the
Vancouver Charter which enables the ballot for Council candidates to be ordered
by random draw.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council, in the interest of creating the fairest, most
democratic, and most level the playing field for all candidates vying for municipal
elected office in the City of Vancouver in 2018, direct staff to report back with a
by-law to allow for a randomized election ballot to Council within 30-days with
recommendations including further information regarding operating funds
required to implement, for a by-law, as specified under Section 79.1 (Order of
names on ballot determined by lot) of Division 10 of the Vancouver Charter
(Arrangements for Voting), to permit the order of candidate names on the
upcoming 2018 Vancouver municipal election ballot to be determined by lot in
order to negate any perception of an unfair advantage that may result from the
current alphabetical ballot order employed by the City in relation to the well-
documented “Ballot Order” / “Name Order” Effect.
B. THAT when the Chief Election Officer reports back to Council in the
“2018 Election Review”, they specifically review the ballot order and provide

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 23
information on how the new process worked for candidates, voters and staff.
C. THAT Council direct staff investigate possibility of adding a photo of candidates
to the ballot and associated costs.
6. Prezoning Cambie Corridor Phase 3 to Expedite Construction of Needed Housing
Mayor Robertson advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Bremner
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion entitled “Prezoning Cambie Corridor Phase 3 to Expedite Construction
of Needed Housing” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities meeting on April 18, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02739)
7. Public Consultation on Empty Homes Tax Revenue
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is facing a housing affordability crisis, with one of the lowest vacancy
rates in Canada;
2. On November 16, 2016, Council approved a tax on empty homes, with all net
proceeds raised from the tax to be used for the purposes of affordable housing;
3. In the first year of the Empty Homes Tax, 98.85 per cent of all Vancouver
homeowners submitted their declarations;
4. A total of 8,481 homes were declared or deemed to be unoccupied,
underutilized, or exempt for more than 180 days in 2017;
5. The deadline to pay the Empty Homes Tax is April 16, 2018.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to undertake public
consultation regarding the investment of net proceeds from the Empty Homes Tax into
affordable housing initiatives, prior to recommendations coming to Council.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02729)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 24
8. Permanent Resident Voting
Mayor Robertson advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the motion entitled “Permanent Resident Voting” be referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 18, 2018, in order to hear
from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02752)
9. Increasing Cycling Education and Safety Training for Youth in Vancouver Schools
Mayor Robertson advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the motion entitled “Increasing Cycling Education and Safety Training for Youth in
Vancouver Schools” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities meeting on April 18, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02753)
NEW BUSINESS
1. Change to Business Licence Hearing Panel – April 24, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Councillor Louie replace Councillor Reimer as Chair of the Business Licence
Hearing panel for the hearing scheduled on Tuesday, April 24, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02754)
2. Leave of Absence Request
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Councillor Reimer be granted leave of absence for Personal Reasons from all
meetings scheduled on Tuesday, April 24, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02738)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, April 17, 2018 25
3. Leave of Absence Request
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Mayor Robertson be granted leave of absence for Civic Business from all
meetings scheduled on Tuesday, April 24, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02755)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. MOBI Bike Share Program
Councillor Carr noted she had received questions from the public regarding MOBI Bike Share
Expansion requested an update on the MOBI Bike Share program expansion, especially criteria
for locations of bike racks and the methods and results of public consultation.
2. Information on Board of Variance
Councillor De Genova requested information regarding recent decisions from the Board of
Variance regarding medical marijuana dispensaries. The City Manager agreed to connect
Councillor De Genova with appropriate staff.
3. Adanac Overpass Closure
Councillor Louie noted he has received a number of communications of how challenging the
closure of the Adanac Overpass is to local residents due to limited ingress and egress in the
neighbourhood, and enquired about the potential for traffic calming in the area. The City
Manager noted there is a project team dealing with ratrunning in the area and they would like to
hear residents’ ideas. The City Manager agreed to talk to Councillor Louie further about this
issue.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 5:52 pm.
* * * * *