REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MARCH 14, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
was held on Wednesday, March 14, 2018, at 9:38 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor,
City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Heather Deal, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*, Vice-Chair
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations, and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee adopt Items 4, 5 and 10, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND ITEMS
4 AND 5 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 2
1. Greater Vancouver INNOVATION CAPITAL
March 6, 2018
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff and a Board Member from the Vancouver
Economic Commission presented the report and responded to questions.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the report.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve an increase of $500,000 to the Vancouver Economic
Commission’s 2018 operating budget for the sole purpose of supporting the
Greater Vancouver INNOVATION CAPITAL initiative and engaging
TIR Consulting Group LLC for the development of a “Third Industrial Revolution
infrastructure roadmap” for the region. The budget increase will be funded from
the City of Vancouver Innovation Fund.
B. THAT the release of the funds from the City of Vancouver Innovation Fund is
subject to the Vancouver Economic Commission securing additional funds from
third parties targeting a 3:1 ratio, and contingent on the funds being deployed by
the end of 2019, or returned to the City of Vancouver Innovation Fund.
C. THAT Council direct staff to review all third party funding support for the Greater
Vancouver INNOVATION CAPITAL, ensure the source of funds complies with
City policy, and provide consent to funding offers before they are accepted by the
Vancouver Economic Commission.
D. THAT Council direct staff to ensure all City of Vancouver procurement policies
and best practices are followed in the sole source procurement outlined in
A to C above.
CARRIED (Vote No.02694)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner and Carr opposed)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
2. City Support for Mass Participation Bike Rides
January 15, 2018
Engineering Services staff reviewed the report.
The Committee heard from seven speakers in support of the report.
Engineering Services staff responded to questions.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 3
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve a grant comprised of funding, value-in-kind and services
of up to the value of $200,000, to continue to provide sponsorship support for a
pilot involving two mass participation bike rides to be held in August and
September of 2018. These events are called “Our City Ride” and “Bike the Night”
respectively.
B. THAT the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services be authorized to enter into one or more sponsorship agreements with
the event organizers, subject to each of them being satisfied with the terms and
conditions of such agreements.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above, unless and until the sponsorship agreements are executed by the City’s
authorized signatories.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the motion be amended to strike and replace it with the following:
THAT Council refer the report dated January 15, 2018, entitled “City Support for
Mass Participation Bike Rides”, back to staff to work with the organizers of both
mass participation bike rides to focus on creating a singular event, in order to
maximize sponsorship and attendance;
FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council with an update by May 2018,
including recommendations for any grants to be provided.
LOST (Vote No. 02695)
(Councillors Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
* * * * *
At 11:59 am, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:00 pm and reconvened at 2:05 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 4
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bremner
THAT A be amended to insert the word “final” before the word “pilot” to read:
A. THAT Council approve a grant comprised of funding, value-in-kind and services
of up to the value of $200,000 to continue to provide sponsorship support for a
final pilot involving two mass participation bike rides to be held in August and
September of 2018. These events are called “Our City Ride” and “Bike the Night”
respectively.
not put
The Chair ruled Councillor Bremner’s amendment out of order because under Section 4.3(g)
of the Procedure By-law, it failed to meet any other characteristic or condition that applies to
stating a motion.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion be amended by adding D at the end:
D. THAT staff report back on the impacts of the “Our City Ride” and “Bike the Night”
events with recommendations on the most effective plan for any future mass
participation bike rides.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02696)
The Committee agreed to sever the vote on the components of the amended motion.
The amendments have lost or carried, the amended motion was put and CARRIED
AND A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY, with Councillor Affleck opposed to A, B and C
(Vote Nos. 02697 and 02698).
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. That Council approve a grant comprised of funding, value-in-kind and services of
up to the value of $200,000 to continue to provide sponsorship support for a pilot
involving two mass participation bike rides to be held in August and September of
2018. These events are called “Our City Ride” and “Bike the Night” respectively.
B. THAT the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services be authorized to enter into one or more sponsorship agreements with
the event organizers subject to each of them being satisfied with the terms and
conditions of such agreements.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above, unless and until the sponsorship agreements are executed by the City’s
authorized signatories.
D. THAT staff report back on the impacts of the “Our City Ride” and “Bike the Night”
events with recommendations on the most effective plan for any future mass
participation bike rides.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 5
3. Electric Vehicle Ecosystem Program Update
January 24, 2018
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the report and responded to
questions.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the report.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the requirements for electric vehicle (“EV”) charging infrastructure in
new residential buildings in the applicable City by-law be amended such
that all residential parking stalls, excluding visitor stalls, are EV ready;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
for enactment the necessary amending By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated January 24, 2018, entitled “Electric
Vehicle Ecosystem Program Update”.
B. THAT the majority of electric vehicle charging requirements and the bicycle
end-of-trip facilities requirements for new construction be moved from the
Building By-law to the Parking By-law;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
for enactment the necessary amending By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated January 24, 2018, entitled “Electric
Vehicle Ecosystem Program Update”.
C. THAT the Electrical By-law be updated to ensure that the electrical
requirements in the Building By-law can be enforced;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
for enactment the necessary amending By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 24, 2018, entitled “Electric
Vehicle Ecosystem Program Update”.
D. THAT Council receive for information updates related to new public
Electric Vehicle Charging stations throughout the City and utilization of
existing stations.
E. THAT Council receive for information an update relating to the provision of
preferential parking for zero emission vehicles in the city.
F. THAT Council approve an increase of $750,000 to the multi-year capital
project budget for the EV Ecosystem Strategy, for improvements to the
public charging network as part of the Electric Vehicle Ecosystem
Strategy; source of funding to be the 2015-2018 Capital Plan (Emerging
Priorities).
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02699)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 6
4. 2018 Cultural Grants: Project Grants and Balance of Quarterly Instalments to the
Major Exhibiting Institutions
February 13, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve Project grants to 66 cultural organizations in the amount
of $430,000 as detailed in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
February 13, 2018, entitled “2018 Cultural Grants: Project Grants and Balance of
Quarterly Instalments to the Major Exhibiting Institutions”, using funds from the
2018 Cultural Grants Budget and the 150+ Innovations Fund.
B. THAT Council approve the balance of quarterly grant instalments to
A.S.T.C. Science World, H.R. MacMillan Space Centre, Vancouver Art Gallery
Association, Vancouver Maritime Museum Society and Vancouver Museum
Society (collectively, the “5 Major Exhibiting Institutions”), in the aggregate
amount of $2,972,550 as detailed in Appendix A of the Administrative Report
dated February 13, 2018, entitled “2018 Cultural Grants: Project Grants and
Balance of Quarterly Instalments to the Major Exhibiting Institutions”, using funds
from the 2018 Cultural Grants Budget.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A and B
above, unless and until grant agreement letters are executed and delivered by
the grant recipients
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A AND B BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02707)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
5. Approval of Grant for Marpole Oakridge Family Place Society at 8188 Lord Street
February 23, 2018
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve a one-time grant of $183,500 from the cash
Community Amenity Contribution received as a condition for the rezoning of
8175 Cambie Street, 519 Southwest Marine Drive and 8180 to 8192 Lord Street
(now 8189 Cambie Street), to the Marpole Oakridge Family Place Society at the
same site (to be at 8188 Lord Street), for furnishing, equipment and supplies.
Disbursement of the grant to be managed within the current overall capital
expenditure budget.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations be created or arise by Council’s adoption of
A above, until a grant agreement has been executed by all parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A BY THE
REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02708)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 7
6. 2018 Property Taxation: Targeted Land Assessment Averaging
March 7, 2018
Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management staff presented the report and responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the application of targeted 3-year land assessment
averaging for the purpose of calculating property taxes for Residential (Class 1),
Light Industrial (Class 5), and Business & Other (Class 6) properties for 2018.
B. THAT, in addition to the standard exclusions as outlined in the annual Land
Assessment Averaging By-law, Council adopt a “threshold” of 10% above the
property class average change for Class 1 and for Classes 5 & 6 to define
eligibility for targeted averaging;
FURTHER THAT the 2018 property class average change for Class 1 and for
Classes 5 & 6 be finalized upon receipt of the 2018 Revised Assessment Roll in
April 2018.
C. THAT properties impacted by the Director of Planning-initiated amendments to
the Zoning & Development By-law and/or Official Development Plan in the Mount
Pleasant Industrial Area, Railtown (Historic Industrial) District, and False Creek
Flats Area be considered for targeted averaging, in accordance with the criteria
as set out in the annual Land Assessment Averaging By-law.
D. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
prepares a by-law authorizing the use of targeted averaging that reflects
Council’s decision on A to C above.
E. THAT, subject to adoption of the above-noted by-law, the Director of Finance
makes appropriate arrangements with BC Assessment for the production of the
2018 Average Assessment Roll at an estimated cost of $25,000 plus applicable
taxes; source of funding to be the 2018 Operating Budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02700)
7. Contract Award for ITT PS20172495 - Contractor for Langara Golf Course Drainage
Master Plan Implementation
February 20, 2018
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the report.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the City approach the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation to
collaborate on the following:

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 8
• Options and financial analysis for transitioning some of the Langara golf
course lands into a public park with restored wetlands and ecosystems,
trail network, sports fields, and a track and field facility that adheres to
international competition standards; and
• Options for partnering with the Musqueam, Langara College, the YMCA,
and the Province of BC in relation to future use of the Langara golf course
lands and the adjacent parcels;
FURTHER THAT staff report back on the matter by July 2018.
B. THAT consideration of the Administrative Report dated February 20, 2018,
entitled “Contract Award for ITT PS20172495 - Contractor for Langara Golf
Course Drainage Master Plan Implementation”, be postponed until such time as
Council can consider the report back from staff referenced in A above.
carried
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Affleck
THAT the matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities meeting on April 18, 2018, to hear from speakers.
LOST (Vote No. 02702)
(Councillors Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote)
At 4:23 pm, during debate on the referral motion, Councillor Affleck rose on a point of order,
submitting that Mayor Robertson’s motion was not germane to the agenda item being
considered. The Chair ruled the motion in order because it was referring the matter to staff
for further review.
The referral motion having lost the motion was put and CARRIED with Councillors Affleck, Ball,
Bremner and De Genova opposed (Vote No. 02703).
8. Approval of 2018-19 Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets
February 22, 2018
At the Regular Council meeting on March 13, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter
to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on March 14, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support and one speaker opposed to the report.
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 9
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the 2018-19 fiscal year Business Improvement Association
Budgets as set out in the Administrative Report dated February 22, 2018, entitled
“Approval of 2018-19 Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets”, and approve grants
to 22 BIAs totalling $12,545,596, to be disbursed as outlined in Table 1, Column A of the
above-noted Administrative Report;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
the appropriate rating by-laws to recover the amounts of the grants outlined in the
above-noted Administrative Report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02704)
9. False Creek South Provisional Resident Protection and Retention Plan
March 2, 2018
At the Regular Council meeting on March 13, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter
to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on March 14, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and Arts, Culture and Community Services staff
presented the report.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 6:05 pm and reconvened at 6:40 pm.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the report.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle the False Creek South Provisional Resident
Protection and Retention Plan, as outlined in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated March 2, 2018, entitled “False Creek South Provisional Resident
Protection and Retention Plan”;
FURTHER THAT the last bullet in Appendix A, Page 9 (c) of the above-noted
Policy Report be amended to insert the words “a housing charge based on the
co-op cost sharing model, and in any case”, to read as follows:
• for all other existing co-operative members, a housing charge based on
the co-op cost sharing model, and in any case, priced at housing charges
of and in any case no more than 30% of their incomes.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 10
B. THAT Council instruct the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability to report back to Council with a final recommended Resident
Protection and Retention Plan for False Creek South.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02705)
(Councillor Ball and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
10. Renewal of Ray-Cam Community Centre
At the Regular Council meeting on March 13, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter
to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on March 14, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
Subsequent to referral, all registered speakers withdrew their requests to speak. Therefore, the
matter was considered as part of the consent agenda.
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Ray-Cam Co-operative Community Centre (Ray-Cam), located at
920 East Hastings Street, sits on land owned by the Provincial BC Housing
Agency that has been in perpetuity granted for the use and enjoyment of
local Vancouver residents;
2. Ray-Cam currently serves a diverse range of low income community members,
in particular indigenous and new immigrant populations, at-risk youth, families
and seniors;
3. Ray-Cam’s current building facilities, owned by the City of Vancouver and
operated by the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation, are nearing the end
of their useful life and in need of significant renewal;
4. On October 20, 2016, Council voted unanimously to re-zone the Ray-Cam site,
subdividing the Community Centre site from the Stamps Place Housing site in
order to facilitate renewal and development of replacement buildings;
5. The Downtown Eastside Local Area Plan passed by Council in March of 2014,
allows for built form development of significantly greater scale and density than is
currently on site;
6. Community-led visioning by local residents, facilitated by professional land use
consultants and made possible through a City of Vancouver Great Beginnings
grant, has identified neighbourhood deficiencies and a number of opportunities to
accommodate both current and future needs, including but not limited to
affordable housing; seniors, youth, and family housing; daycare; healthcare;
seniors care; community services; recreation; youth activities; creative and maker
space; community development and capacity building; social enterprise and local
serving retail;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 11
7. The community-visioned redevelopment process has resulted in preliminary
concept plans for a passive house standard environmental performance
development, including a renewed community centre, at-grade retail, and social
enterprise with housing above;
8. Proponents for the community-visioned redevelopment have secured in-principle
support from BC Housing for construction and financing of the residential
component and land use pending a commitment of City funding for a renewed
community centre and attendant services;
9. Proponents for the community-visioned redevelopment are also in the process of
securing resourced partnerships with both UBC’s School of Community and
Regional Planning (SCARP) and Department of Civil Engineering;
10. This project as proposed meets the goals of a number of City of Vancouver
policies and strategies, including Healthy City, Greenest City, Creative City,
Engaged City, Transportation 2040, Social Infrastructure Plan, Places for People,
Resilient City, Housing Vancouver Strategy, and the Downtown Eastside Local
Area Plan, and incorporates objectives outlined in many City policies, including
resilience, reconciliation, accessibility, diversity and multiculturalism, children and
childcare, and local economic development policies, as well as Vancouver Board
of Parks and Recreation’s VanPlay and Leisure Access Pass objectives;
11. Preliminary conversations with senior staff from BC Housing and the City of
Vancouver, including the City Manager and Director of Planning confirm that this
project not only meets many city objectives and strategies but also has
widespread support in the immediate and adjacent community;
12. The accelerating development, gentrification, speculation and increasing
land values that are placing pressure on Vancouver’s scant existing local
low-income-serving services and spaces such as Ray-Cam require rapid
response to avoid their loss; and
13. The current availability of senior government funding including from the
Federal-Provincial Housing Initiative (FPH), Social Infrastructure Fund
Agreement, Provincial Investment in Affordable Housing (PIAH) and the
BC government commitment to build 114,000 new rental, non-profit and
co-op housing units has created a timely opportunity for a project of this
scale and scope.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to undertake a comprehensive review of the Ray-Cam
Co-operative Community Centre Renewal Project in a timely way to ensure that it
can be adequately considered for inclusion in the City's 2019-2022 Capital Plan.
B. THAT Council direct the City Manager to work with BC Housing to develop a
Memorandum of Understanding as necessary to support and qualify the
Ray-Cam Co-operative Community Centre Renewal Project for any forthcoming
provincial Expression of Interest.
C. THAT the City resource the Ray-Cam Co-operative Community Centre
Renewal Project to continue with their collaborative community consultation
and co-creation work.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 12
D. THAT the City provide the Ray-Cam Co-operative Community Centre Renewal
Project with a Memorandum of Understanding and letter of support to enable the
project to pursue additional funding opportunities and partnerships.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02709)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
11. Provincial Funding for Energy Retrofits of Buildings
At the Regular Council meeting on March 13, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred this matter
to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on March 14, 2018, to hear
from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
The following contains changes to the original motion, which were accepted by the Committee.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The B.C. NDP’s Energy and Jobs Plan for BC includes the following priorities:
a. Retrofitting public buildings: “a serious long-term commitment to energy
efficiency in all our public buildings (that) will save money, will reduce overall
demand for energy, and create good-paying jobs and apprenticeships in
every community in British Columbia”;
b. Retrofitting homes and businesses: “helping families and businesses replace
wasteful equipment, seal leaks and install proper insulation…(to) reduce
individual Hydro bills, free up our existing generation capacity, and reduce
climate changing emissions”; and
c. Investing in clean energy: “British Columbia has tremendous opportunity to
produce renewable energy and export renewable energy technology. By
providing investment and leadership, the Province of British Columbia can
support our technology sector and foster the good-paying research,
engineering and trades jobs of the future.”;
2. The sooner the Province of BC moves on investing in energy conservation and
renewable energy production the better, as both are crucial to meeting not only
provincial but also local governments’ climate goals;
3. Greenhouse Gas (GhG) emissions from inefficient buildings are high, for
example 56 percent of all GhG emissions in the City of Vancouver, but the lack of
funding for building retrofits is a major barrier for building owners;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 13
4. Manitoba Hydro provides a good example of how to fund energy retrofits through
its on-bill financing program whereby loans for energy retrofits are provided to
building owners with loan payments matching prior energy bills;
5. Energy retrofit programs such as Manitoba Hydro’s energy retrofit program have
created many new skilled jobs in rural, First Nations and urban communities, and
resulted in lower energy bills which contribute to more affordable housing; and
6. Provincial government investment and leadership in renewable energy
technologies would help create jobs in BC communities and also help ensure that
low-carbon and zero-carbon building components and technologies are available
so that builders and local governments can meet the building code requirements
in the BC Step Energy Code and Vancouver Building By-law.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the City of Vancouver / Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) / Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) urge the
Province of British Columbia to move quickly to:
a. Retrofit public buildings, including schools, for energy efficiency;
b. Implement a program such as the Manitoba Hydro’s energy retrofit
incentives, rebates, loans program, and other funding mechanisms, to help
homeowners and businesses finance energy retrofits on their buildings,
including non-profit, co-op and purpose-built rental housing; and
c. Invest in renewable energy technology development and production that
would create jobs throughout B.C. and help local governments and builders
meet building code requirements that are moving towards zero-carbon
buildings;
FURTHER THAT the motion as outlined above be forwarded to the LMLGA and UBCM.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02706)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 7:06 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MARCH 14, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
March 14, 2018, at 7:06 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations
and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Elizabeth Ball
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, March 14, 2018
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Greater Vancouver Innovation Capital
2. City Support for Mass Participation Bike Rides
3. Electric Vehicle Ecosystem Program Update
4. 2018 Cultural Grants: Project Grants and Balance of Quarterly Instalments to the Major
Exhibiting Institutions
5. Approval of Grant for Marpole Oakridge Family Place Society at 8188 Lord Street
6. 2018 Property Taxation: Targeted Land Assessment Averaging
7. Contract Award for ITT PS20172495 - Contractor for Langara Golf Course Drainage
Master Plan Implementation
8. Approval of 2018-19 Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets
9. False Creek South Provisional Resident Protection and Retention Plan
10. Renewal of Ray-Cam Community Centre
11. Provincial Funding for Energy Retrofits of Buildings

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 2
Items 1 to 11
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services at its meeting of March 14, 2018, as contained in
items 1 to 11, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND ITEMS 2, 4 AND 5
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT Councillor Jang be granted a Leave of Absence for the Business Licence Hearing
to be held on March 15, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02710)
2. Change to Business Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing Panel of
March 15, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver City Council, on November 28, 2017, appointed Councillor Jang to a
Business License/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing Panel, for a hearing to be
held on March 15, 2018; and
2. Due to being on leave of absence, Councillor Jang is no longer able to attend the
hearing on March 15, 2018. Councillor Louie has agreed to replace Councillor
Jang at the hearing on March 15, 2018.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Councillor Louie be appointed to the Business License/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal
Hearing Panel for the hearing to be held on March 15, 2018, in place of Councillor Jang.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02711)

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, March 14, 2018 3
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02712)
1. A By-law to Average Land Assessments for 2018 (By-law No. 12066)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 7:08 pm.
* * * * *