PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 20, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, February 20, 2018, at
6:05 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations, and we give thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and
Mayor Robertson opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: 1529 West Pender Street
An application by Francl Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the text of CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District (312)
By-law No. 7200, to allow conversion to office use of 684 square metres
of vacant retail store space in an existing building located at
1529 West Pender Street.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:13 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by Francl Architecture, on behalf of BCIMC Realty
Corporation (Quadreal Property Group), to amend the text of CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District (312) By-law No. 7200, to allow
conversion to office use of 684 square meters of vacant retail store space in an
existing building located at 1529 West Pender Street [PID:024-333-387; Lot 1
Block 42 District Lot 185 and of the Public Harbour of Burrard Inlet Group 1
New Westminster District Plan LMP39928], generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 1529 West Pender Street”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
1. Design of the front interior space of street-level commercial units
should provide visual interest for pedestrians on Pender Street and
window treatments should maintain transparency.
Note to Applicant: To maintain transparency, windows should not be
blocked out with opaque or translucent film.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 3
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02647)
2. REZONING: 5679 Main Street (189-193 East 41st Avenue and
5679-5695 Main Street)
An application by Mallen Gowing Berzins Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 5679 Main Street from C-2 (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit a new six-storey
mixed-use building with 46 secured market rental housing units. A height
of 23.0 metres (75 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.50 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 10 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 1 piece of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 4
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:18 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Mallen Gowing Berzins Architecture Inc., on behalf
of Rendition (E41) Developments Inc., the registered owner, to rezone
5679 Main Street [Lots 12 to 15, Except, (A) Part in Plan 4447, (B) The West
6 Feet Now Lane; and Lot 16, Except, (A) Part in Plan 4447, (B) The West
6 Feet Now Lane,(C) Part in Reference Plan 5645 Now Road; all of Block L,
West Part of District Lots 639 and 640, Plan 1393; PIDs: PID 014-070-910,
014-070-928, 014-071-037, 014-071-061 and 014-071-754, respectively] from
C-2 (Commercial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.50 to 3.50 and the building height
from 13.8 m (45 ft.) to 23.0 (75 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey
mixed-use building with 46 secured market rental housing units, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 5679 Main Street (189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695
Main Street)”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Mallen Gowing Berzins Architecture
Inc. on behalf of Rendition (E41) Developments Inc., and labeled
“Received September 29, 2017 Rezoning – PDS”, provided that the
Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to the north side of the building, to reduce
the massing and improve the building elevation, as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 5
(i) Delete the northeast corner of Unit W10 on Level 6
(currently shown as a washroom);
(ii) Add windows to the exit stair, to improve transparency
and encourage active use; and
(iii) Consideration to add a window on the north wall of the
second bedroom of Unit W7 on Levels 4 and 5.
Note to Applicant: Only the exit stair massing should project into
the 8 ft. upper storey setback.
2. Design development to improve livability of the units by
providing appropriate storage either in-suite or at the parkade
level.
Note to Applicant: Many in-suite storage rooms are compromised
by the location of laundry facilities, and do not appear to comply
with the Bulk Storage bulletin.
3. Design development to improve the building elevations by
indicating all exterior materials.
Note to Applicant: Further conditions may follow from the
response to this condition.
4. Design development to the public realm design, as follows:
(i) Provide a demountable weather protection canopy,
minimum 6 ft. deep; and
(ii) Provide a sidewalk treatment consistent with Engineering
Services requirements.
Note to Applicant: Weather protection canopy should be clearly
indicated and dimensioned on the floorplan and section
drawings. Patios on City property should be removed from the
drawings. A patio use may be approved under a separate, future
permit. Landscape design should be amended to not obstruct or
interfere with the use of the sidewalk.
5. The proposed unit mix, including 9 studio units (19%),
21 one-bedroom units (46%), and 16 two-bedroom units (35%),
is to be included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 6
6. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building is encouraged in the application for a development
permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Identify on the drawings strategies that consider the principles
of CPTED including the following conditions:
(i) Limiting opportunities for nuisance activities, mischief in
alcoves, and blind corners;
(ii) Limiting unobserved access or activity and encouraging
natural visual surveillance;
(iii) Mail theft;
(iv) Site lighting developed with considerations for safety and
security; and
(v) Reduced opportunities for graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Alcoves and other similar visually hidden
areas should be designed so as to not be covered or have limited
cover and be well lit.
Opportunities for graffiti can be mitigated by reducing areas of
exposed wall and by covering with vines, hedges or a rough finish
material.
8. Design development to improve visibility and security in the
underground parking in accordance with the Parking By-law
including:
(i) Overhead lighting and step lights at exit stairs and doors;
(ii) 24 hour lights and walls painted white; and
(iii) Visibility at doors, lobbies, stairs and other access routes.
Landscape Design
9. Design development to the integration of the architecture,
grades, retaining walls, walkways and structural elements, such
as underground parking, to provide maximum plant growing
depth (exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 7
Note to Applicant: Variations in the slab may be required in
combination with appropriate growing medium. In the horizontal
plane, soils should be contiguous, wherever possible.
10. Design development to increase the amount of permanent
rooftop planting and presence of vegetation by increasing the
width of private patio edge in combination with more robust tree
planters.
11. Explore opportunities to add additional soft landscaping to the
building edges at grade.
Note to Applicant: The at grade public-private realm contains
large expanses of paving. In coordination with Engineering staff,
efforts should be made to add low maintenance planting to the
building perimeter at grade, especially along Woodstock Avenue.
It is noted that this will be challenging at points of access/egress
and pedestrian paths.
12. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas
and hose bibs for all patios and common areas greater than
100 sq. ft.
13. Design development to locate site utilities and vents onto
private property and integrated discreetly into the building,
avoiding landscaped and common areas.
Note to Applicant: This includes the exploration of opportunities
to screen the pad mounted transformer at the lane with a trellis
and gates. Further coordination with BC Hydro will be necessary.
Sustainability
14. Confirm that the building is on track to meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings
(as amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of
63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency
and stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost
as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits.
The strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be
incorporated into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED
Accredited Professional or Administrator must confirm that the
proposed strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the
rezoning policy.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 8
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
15. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 14, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings
(i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions
standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions
Green Building are summarized at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
16. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
17. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that
meet the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Water Course
By-law. The plan shall achieve the following objectives;
(i) Retain or infiltrate 50% of the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
(ii) Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) onsite; and
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 2-year storm event rate.
The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curve, whereas the post development estimate shall use
the 2100 IDF curve to account for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required to
ensure on-going operations of certain stormwater storage,
rainwater management and green infrastructure systems.
18. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 9
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
19. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
20. Confirmation that the proposed garbage space provides adequate
bin storage. Please review the garbage and recycling design
supplement to determine garbage space for the commercial
portion of the development. The current provision of totters only
is likely not an adequate provision. More typical 2 or 3 yard bins
may be necessary.
21. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for this rezoning.
22. The following statement is to be placed on the landscape plans:
“The landscape plan is to be noted as ‘NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION’
and is to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a
minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any construction
proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site
Inspector for details.”
23. Clearly show existing transit shelter on the Site Plan and
Landscape Plans.
24. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
Provision of additional design elevations on both sides of the
parking ramp at all breakpoints and both sides of the loading
bay.
Note to Applicant: The length of the ramp slopes and all sections
of ramp to be shown on the submitted drawings.
25. Modification of the parking ramp design as follows:
(i) The slope must not exceed 10% for the first 20 ft. from
the property line.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 10
(ii) The slope must not exceed 12.5% after the first 20 ft.
from the property line. 15% slopes may be acceptable if a
7.5% to 10% transition ramp is provided at the bottom for
at least 4 m in length.
(iii) Provide a corner cut through the inside radius at the
bottom of the main parking ramp to enable two vehicles
to pass each other unobstructed.
(iv) Provision of vehicle turn movements that show vehicle
turning tracks the length of the curved ramps on the
submitted plans to ensure that two vehicles can pass
unobstructed.
Note to Applicant: Engineering recommends providing a
minimum ramp width of 23.5 ft. through the curved
section of the parking ramps to achieve two way flow.
(v) Provide measures to address conflicts between vehicles
on the ramps. Parabolic mirrors are recommended at the
tops and bottoms of all ramps and through the curved
sections of the ramps.
(vi) Provision of updated section drawing showing elevations,
vertical clearances, and security gates for the main ramp
and through the loading bay.
Note to Applicant: Label minimum clearance for parking
levels on the drawings, including overhead gate and
mechanical projections.
(vii) Show and dimension all columns on the drawings.
(viii) Provide a 6.6 m (21.66 ft.) maneuvering aisle width or
provide 2.74 m (9 ft.) stall widths.
(ix) Provision of additional parking stall width for stalls
adjacent to walls or stalls with columns set back more
than 4 ft. from the end of the stall.
26. Modification of the loading bay design:
(i) The slope of the loading bay must not exceed 5%.
(ii) Provide a double throat for the Class B loading spaces.
(iii) Confirm minimum vertical clearance for the two small car
stalls located on P2 under the ramp from P1 to P2.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 11
(iv) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
(v) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle room(s).
Note to Applicant: Engineering does not support the
proposed lane closure as it would lead to vehicle
circulation through the neighbourhood to achieve access
to the parking and loading.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 12 to 15, Except, (A) Part in Plan 4447,
(B) The West 6 Feet Now Lane; and Lot 16, Except, (A) Part in
Plan 4447, (B) The West 6 Feet Now Lane, (C) Part in Reference
Plan 5645 Now Road; all of Block L, West Part of District Lots 639
and 640, Plan 1393 to create a single parcel and subdivision of
that site to result in the dedication of the easterly 7 ft. (2.134
m) and the southerly 2 m for road purposes. A subdivision plan
and application to the Subdivision and Strata Group is required.
2. Following dedications, provision of an additional building setback
to achieve a 5.5 m (18 ft.) boulevard, measured from the back of
the existing curbs on both Main Street and 41st Avenue. A legal
survey of the existing dimension from the back of the City curb is
required to determine the final setback/statutory right-of-way
(SRW) dimension. The SRW will be free of any encumbrances
such as structures, stairs, door swing, landscaping and bicycle
parking at grade but the encroaching building portions shown
below grade and at the 3rd storey and above will be
accommodated within the SRW agreement.
Note to Applicant: Should the setback be determined to be less
than 2 ft., then an SRW will not be sought over the setback
areas.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 12
3. Release of Easement and Indemnity Agreement 305021M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until security for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of an upgrade to the traffic signal at the
intersection of 41st Avenue and Main Street through
provision of upgraded intersection lighting and a traffic
camera upgrade including all supporting equipment,
cabinet/kiosk and signal modifications to accommodate
the upgrade.
(ii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(iii) Provision of new CIP light broom finish sidewalk and
exposed aggregate front utility strip with saw cut joints
to be located between the curb and the building face on
all building frontages.
(iv) Provision of upgraded LED street lighting on Main Street,
Woodstock Avenue and on 41st Avenue to current
standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(v) Provision of standard concrete commercial lane crossings
at both lane entries for the lane west of Main Street at
41st Avenue and Woodstock Street.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 13
(vi) Provision of new curb ramps and curb returns where
necessary on the Main Street frontage at 41st Avenue
and at Woodstock Avenue.
(vii) Provision of removal of the existing boulevard crossing
and reconstruction of the sidewalks and curb to current
standards.
(viii) Provision of adjustments to the transit stop and transit
shelter to accommodate building design and/or transit
stop needs including adjusted shelter location should it
be necessary.
(ix) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
(x) Provision of adjusted parking regulatory signage adjacent
the site as needed.
(xi) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(xii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current
application lacks the details to determine if sewer main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including floor area, projected fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer to determine if
sewer system upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any sewer system upgrading that may be required.
26. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features. In addition, there will

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 14
be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead
electrical network on the street right-of- way. Any alterations to
the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro, an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Housing
27. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement and/or Section 219 Covenant to secure
all 46 residential units as secured market rental housing units
pursuant to the City’s Rental 100 Program, for the longer of
60 years or the life of the building, subject to a no-separate-
sales covenant and a no-stratification covenant, and such other
terms and conditions as the General Manager of Community
Services and the Director of Legal Services may require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City at by-law enactment
pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter and/or a
Section 219 Covenant.
Environmental Contamination
28. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 15
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing
Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report
dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 5679 Main Street
(189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695 Main Street)”, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for
enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the
property owner(s) and their mortgagee(s), but prior to enactment of the CD-1
By-law contemplated by the above-noted, subject to such terms and conditions
as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Community Services.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations
for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 5679 Main Street
(189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695 Main Street)”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 5679 Main Street
(189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695 Main Street)”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 16
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02648)
3. REZONING: 431-455 West King Edward Avenue
An application by Integra Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 431-455 West King Edward Avenue from RS-1 (One-Family
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit
a new four-storey residential building and two-storey townhouses at the
lane with 42 secured market rental units. A building height of 14.6 metres
(48 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.01 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 1 piece of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:25 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by Integra Architecture Inc., on behalf of 1022003 B.C.
Ltd., the registered owner, and CIBT Education to rezone 431-455 West King
Edward Avenue [Lots 13 to 15, Block 661, District Lot 526, Plan 2913; PIDs:
013- 343-700, 013-343-742, and 013-343-769 respectively] from RS-1

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 17
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District,
to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.01 FSR and the height
from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 14.6 m (48 ft.) to permit the development of a
four-storey residential building containing a total of 42 secured market rental
housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 431-455 West King Edward
Avenue”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Integra Architecture Inc. on behalf
of CIBT Education, and stamped “Received Planning and Development
Services (Rezoning Centre) July 14, 2016”, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of development when
approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to provide a substantial break (no less than
10 ft.) in the laneway townhouse building which will result in
two separate buildings.
Note to Applicant: A single building in excess of 80 ft. is not
supported in the Cambie Corridor Plan. This refinement will
improve the scale and livability of the townhouse buildings at
the lane.
2. Design development to improve the courtyard performance by
increasing its dimension and by lowering it to be closer to
natural grade and better related to units that are located along
it.
Note to Applicant: This may be achieved by optimizing the
parking structure and/or lowering the elevation of the main
building. Units in the main building can be considered along the
courtyard to provide amenity to the units, and to enliven the
courtyard space.
3. Design development to re-locate the indoor amenity space to the
rooftop and along with it, provide a co-located outdoor amenity
space. An increase is sought on each of these spaces by providing
no less than 700 sq. ft. for the indoor amenity and 1,400 sq. ft.
for the outdoor amenity space.
Note to Applicant: A southern sun exposure must be provided to
ensure viability of landscape enhancements and urban
agriculture plots.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 18
4. Design development to provide a children’s play area at grade,
in line with the High-Density Housing for Families with Children
Guidelines.
5. The proposed unit mix, including 5 one-bedroom units (12%),
24 two-bedroom units (57%), 11 three-bedroom units (26%), and
2 four-bedroom units (5%), is to be included in the Development
Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.
6. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building is encouraged in the application for a development
permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for the following:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
8. Design development to improve the livability of the common
courtyard by the following:
(i) Widen the distance between buildings to achieve a more
usable space, with the common walkway to be a
minimum 8 ft. wide.
(ii) Provide more usable common space in the area between
the two townhouse buildings by replacing some of the
planted area with additional seating or other common
uses.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 19
(iii) Provide more opportunities for informal seating and
gathering by including some lawn areas, seat walls and
additional benches.
(iv) Delete water feature and replace with a planting bed,
flush with the courtyard rather than raised, for a smooth,
unobstructed visual experience. This will require
alterations to the parkade height in order to allow
adequate depth of soil.
(v) Orient planting beds along the walkway towards the
common side, in layers with lower plants in front of taller
ones.
(vi) Relocate the children’s play area, including benches for
parent supervision, closer to the common courtyard,
where visual access for adult supervision of children can
take place. The play area should receive maximum solar
orientation and should not be covered.
9. Design development to include the addition of minimum four
significant, larger scale deciduous trees in free soil areas (on
free grade) for the provision of a higher quality landscape and
additional future tree canopy.
Note to Applicant: This can be accommodated in the 8 ft.
setbacks along the side yards at both ends of the common
courtyard.
10. Design development to provide a more conservative tree removal
strategy to enable the retention and protection of all or some of
the adjacent east property trees.
Note to Applicant: A revised arborist report should recommend
tree retention, based on further assessment of health and
condition. Trees which are not viable will require a Letter of
Consent from the property owner for removal.
11. Design development to fourth level common terrace through the
following:
(i) Provision of additional planters at the terrace edge and
visible from the street; and
(ii) Provision of urban agriculture plots following the City’s
Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and
including infrastructure as required, such as potting
benches, hose bibs, etc. Garden plots should be
wheelchair accessible.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 20
12. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided
with amenities such as raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
13. Consideration to improve sustainability by the provision of an
extensive green roof.
14. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape is to be submitted.
The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials
(with common botanical names, plant sizes and quantities),
paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other
landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List
that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan
should be a minimum of 1:100 or 1/8” scale and should match
the architectural site plan.
15. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2”=1’ scale to illustrate
typical proposed landscape elements including planters on
structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details should show dimensioned
rootballs to confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well
into the future. The depth should exceed BCSLA standards.
16. Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to the public
realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated
private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences
and planters. The location of the underground parking slab
should be included in sections.
17. New proposed street trees should be coordinated with the Park
Board and Engineering and noted “Final species, quantity and
spacing to the approval of City Engineer and Park Board”.
Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering Streets
Division regarding street tree spacing and quantity. Contact
Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board regarding tree
species.
18. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system is to be provided
for all planters on parkade slab and minimum of hose bibs to be
provided for landscape on grade.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 21
19. A Landscape Lighting Plan is to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings. All existing light poles should be shown.
Sustainability
20. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green Demolition/
Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing buildings on site,
to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition waste (excluding
hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
21. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
22. In lieu of the requirements outlined in condition 21, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e.
Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 22
Engineering
23. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
24. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show
containers and totters on plans for recycling and garbage needs
and refer to the Engineering Garbage and Recycling Storage
Facility Design Supplement for recommended dimensions and
quantities of bins.
Note to Applicant: Pick-up operations should not rely on bins
being stored on the street or lane for pick up. Bins are to be
returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.
25. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from
the location shown. If this cannot be confirmed, then an on-site
garbage bin staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.
26. Provision of a landscape and site plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for this rezoning. Please submit an
updated plan for review.
27. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of direct, stair-free access from the laneway to
the apartment elevator core for loading.
Note to Applicant: Parking may not be available on King
Edward Avenue in front of the site for loading due to
certain street improvements.
(ii) Provision of an updated parking floor plan showing the
full extent of the main parking ramp on the plans.
(iii) Provision of additional design elevations throughout the
parking level, both sides of the manoeuver aisle at all
break points and at all entrances to calculate the slope
and crossfall and ensure City building grades are correctly
met at the property lines.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 23
(iv) Confirmation that the slope shown from elevation
211.88 ft. to 208.50 ft. is correct.
(v) Provision of a section drawing showing elevations,
vertical clearances, and security gates for the parking
level.
(vi) Label minimum clearance for parking levels on the plan
and section drawings, including at overhead gate and
mechanical projections.
Note to Applicant: Minimum 2.3 m overhead clearance is
required for access and maneuvering to all disability
spaces.
(vii) Show all overhead gates on drawing A-2.000.
(viii) Provision of 13’-1 ½” width and 7’-6 ½” vertical
clearance for disability stall 12.
Note to Applicant: Consider providing two disability stalls
and a shared access aisle at stall 46 and 47.
(ix) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside. The
route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm the use of the
parking ramp or elevator, if required.
(x) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s).
Note to Applicant: An interconnected water service is
required for this development.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 13 to 15, Block 661, District Lot 526,
Plan 2913 to create a single parcel and subdivision of that site to
result in the dedication of the south 0.75 m for road purposes.
Note to Applicant: Delete all landscaping features (metal railing,
gates, gate column, etc.) from the area to be dedicated.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 24
2. Provision of a shared access agreement between the subject site
and the adjacent site at 467-495 West King Edward Avenue
(Lots 10 to 12, Block 661, District Lot 526, Plan 2913) to secure
access to the proposed underground parking.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights-of-way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of street reconstruction on King Edward Avenue
adjacent to the site to generally include the following:
a. New curb and gutter.
b. A 2.5 m wide raised protected bike lane.
c. A 1.22 m (4 ft.) sod grass boulevard with street
trees.
d. A 1.83 m (6 ft.) wide broom finish concrete
sidewalk with saw cut joints.
e. Work to include adjustments of all existing
infrastructure to accommodate new road
geometry and street changes.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements
are subject to completion and adoption of the Cambie
Corridor Public Realm Plan.
(ii) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
(iii) Provision of upgraded street lighting and pedestrian scale
lighting adjacent the site.
(iv) Provision of adequate water service to meet fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 25
(v) Provision of a stormwater detention tank to maintain
pre- and post-development run-off flows to meet the 1 in
5 year storm standard (the net change in capacity is to be
zero). A stormwater storage covenant will be required.
Note to Applicant: Sewer connection is to be to the
300 mm combined sewer in the lane north of King Edward
Avenue.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted
transformers and kiosks (including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be
located on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features. There will be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way (SRW). Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch. The applicant may be required to show details of how
the site will be provided with all services being underground.
Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement securing all residential units as rental
housing units pursuant to Section 3.1A of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law for the longer of 60 years or the
life of the building, subject to the following conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time; and
(iv) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into the City by by-law enacted
pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 26
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registered
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over other such liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle this rezoning
and the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the
Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
431-455 West King Edward Avenue”, the Director of Legal Services be

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 27
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment,
after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property
owner(s) and their mortgagee(s) prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law
contemplated in the same report.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of
Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 431-455 West King Edward
Avenue”.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02549)
4. REZONING and HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 6 West 17th Avenue (Turner Dairy)
An application by ASIR Studio was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 6 West 17th Avenue (Turner Dairy) from RS-7 (One-Family
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit
the adaptive reuse of the existing three-storey building, including heritage
restoration and designation and 13 market residential units. A height of
10.7 metres (35 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 1.56 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application and responded to
questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 28
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 27 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 11 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Varouj Gumuchian, Riley Park – South Cambie Visions Group
Anne Pearson
David Craig
The following spoke in opposition to aspects of the application:
Arpal Dosanjh
Mary Cowan and Philip Di Tomaso
Michael Smit
Pam Hossack
Lauren McEwen
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:38 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and Engineering Services staff responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application by ASIR Studio on behalf of Durabilt Holdings Ltd., the
registered owner, to rezone 6 West 17th Avenue [Lots 12 and 13, Block 524,
District Lot 526, Plan 2354; PIDs: 014-202-387 and 014-202-425 respectively]
from RS-7 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.75 to 1.56 FSR to permit
the conversion, rehabilitation and protection of the existing dairy building, the
hanging roof truss of the stables building and infill residential development

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 29
containing a total of 13 dwelling units, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning and
Heritage Designation: 6 West 17th Avenue (Turner Dairy)”, be approved subject
to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by ASIR Studio on behalf of Turner Dairy
Developments, and labeled “Received April 19, 2017 Rezoning – PDS”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce the apparent height of the
townhouse building at the lane.
Note to Applicant: A 6 ft. setback should be provided at the
south elevation, in addition to the proposed spacing between the
units at the third storey.
2. Design development to improve the interface with the public
realm along West 17th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: Reduce height of the gates at the courtyard
entry to no more than 3 ft. to ensure a visually permeable
connection between the private and public realm. The
breezeway may be secured and gated, noting that the enclosure
at the street edge should be highly transparent.
3. Design development to the breezeway to improve daylighting of
the space.
Note to Applicant: The breezeway should be an open space with
no significant obstructions. Delete the deck and stair projections
into the breezeway, and provide entry to Unit 13 at the ground
floor. Entry canopies may be provided for each unit.
4. Design development to provide improved daylighting of units
facing the breezeway, while also considering privacy and
overlook.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 30
Note to Applicant: Provide additional windows adjacent the
breezeway where possible, including at the private light wells.
The design of the windows, including sill height, screening or
translucent glazing, should be considered to reduce overlook
issues.
5. Design development to reduce potential overlook impact from
the roof deck to the adjacent site to the west.
Note to Applicant: Provide landscape screening at the western
edge of the roof deck at Unit 5.
6. Design development to the west setback and path to improve
compatibility with the adjacent site.
Note to Applicant: A substantial landscape border should be
provided as a buffer to the adjacent front yard. The height of
the west fence and gate should not exceed 3.5 ft.
7. Design development to improve the visibility of the entries to
the ground-oriented units.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by adding canopies, as
well as feature glazing or cladding and lighting.
8. Design development to provide private and common outdoor
space, including a children’s play area, consistent with the
expectations of the High-Density Housing for Families with
Children Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: The courtyard is noted as communal and
should incorporate children’s play space. Play equipment is not
required, but a soft surface play area and a variety of
landscape/play features which provide creative play
opportunities for a range of ages is encouraged. Each unit should
also have private outdoor space of a size commensurate with the
type of unit, as determined by the number of bedrooms.
9. Design development to provide high-quality and durable exterior
finishes consistent with the rezoning application.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to maintain the proposed quality
in all aspects, including but not limited to appearance,
durability, and performance. Milled siding, including the original
siding, should be used where possible.
10. Design development to retain the existing historic elevator in the
courtyard as an architectural feature.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 31
11. The proposed unit mix, including 2 one-bedroom units (15%),
5 two-bedroom units (38%), 5 three-bedroom units (38%) and
1 four-bedroom unit (8%), is to be included in the Development
Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 25% two-bedroom and 10%
three-bedroom units.
12. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building is encouraged in the application for a development
permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
13. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
14. Resolution of the conflict between the proposal and the three
trees on the neighbouring site, labelled as #7, 8 and 9 on the
arborist tree plan.
Note to Applicant: The arborist report states the trees are not in
good structural condition and could become unstable with the
proposed foundation demolition work. To facilitate the project,
removal of the trees would be supported subject to the provision
of written neighbour consent letter(s) to accompany the tree
removal/replacement application. In the event that a letter of
consent cannot be obtained from the adjacent owner, design
development and further arborist consultation will need to
demonstrate retention of the trees.
15. Design development to locate site utilities and vents onto
private property and integrated discreetly into the building,
avoiding landscaped and common areas.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 32
16. Provision of a detailed landscape plan illustrating soft and hard
landscape treatment.
Note to Applicant: Plant material should be clearly illustrated on
the landscape plan and keyed to a standard plant list. The
landscape plan should include all exterior hard and soft surface
elements (site furniture, gates, fences, surfaces, screens, walls),
the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or
proposed street trees, adjoining landscape/grades and public
utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles and fire hydrants.
17. Provision of a tree plan.
Note to Applicant: Provide a tree plan that is separate from the
landscape plan and consistent with the survey and arborist
report. The scaled plan should be accurate and clearly illustrate
all trees to be removed and retained, including off-site trees and
any necessary tree protection barriers. Tree replacements can
be shown on the proposed landscape planting plans.
18. Illustration of any measures that support integrated rainwater
management that may include absorbent landscapes, soil
volumes and detention technology.
Note to Applicant: A brief written rationale should be provided
to describe the approach to rainwater management.
19. Provision of large scale, dimensioned landscape sections (typical)
through planted areas.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree stem, canopy and root ball, including the
slab-patio-planter relationship, the lane interface, common
areas and upper patios.
20. Provision of high-efficiency irrigation for all planted areas
and individual hose bibs for all private patios of 9.3 sq. m
(100 sq. ft.) or larger.
Note to Applicant: Provide a separate partial irrigation plan (one
sheet size only) that illustrates symbols for hose bib and stub out
locations. There should be accompanying written notes on the
same plan and/or landscape plan describing the intent and/or
standards of irrigation.
Sustainability
21. Provision of a deconstruction plan for demolition of existing
buildings on site to divert at least 75% of demolition waste
(excluding materials banned from disposal) from the landfill.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 33
Note to Applicant: The deconstruction plan should be provided
at the time of development permit application. The plan must
be specific about materials that are being diverted. A template
plan is available for reference.
22. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of
LEED® Gold rating, with a minimum of 63 points in the LEED®
rating system, 1 point each for water efficiency and stormwater
management, and a minimum of 6 points under Optimize Energy
Performance.
Note to Applicant: Provide a LEED® checklist and sustainable
design strategy outlining how the proposed points will be
achieved, a letter of confirmation from an accredited
professional confirming that the building has been designed to
meet these goals, and a receipt including registration number
from the CaGBC. The checklist, registration number and strategy
should be incorporated into the drawing set. Application for
certification of the project will also be required under the
policy. Changes to the existing building should be considered
with respect to improved energy performance and recycled
materials and be included in the heritage conservation plan and
documentation.
23. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 22, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e.
Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Building are summarized at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
24. Clarification is required as to whether the frame for the second
floor horizontal window for units 11, 12 and 13 is proposed to
encroach into the lane. There should be no encroachment over
the property line.
Note to Applicant: Pages A2.2 and A3.0 in the drawing booklet
indicate the potential encroachment over the property line.
25. Show City building grades on the site plan and provide additional
design grades at all entries along the property lines.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 34
26. Clarification of proposed grades for all existing entries intended
to remain. It appears that existing entries will not be able to
meet building grades and may require steps or ramping to meet
adjacent sidewalks and City building grades. Clarification of
grades is required.
27. Adjustment or relocation of the proposed connector sidewalk on
17th Avenue to avoid conflict with existing street trees to the
west of the site.
28. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way. Confirmation that the existing gas service
on Ontario Street is to be relocated or set back behind the
property line.
29. A review of the existing street tree locations, scale and size of
trees to determine if the proposed building location will have a
negative impact on retention of the trees and a review to
determine a construction methodology that will ensure the
protection of the trees and tree canopies during the construction
period and post-occupancy.
30. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provide a signed letter from the BC Safety Authority
which supports the provision of the vehicle elevator/lift
device.
(ii) Design development to improve maneuvering into and out
of the car elevator.
Note to Applicant: A widened car elevator may be
required.
(iii) Provision of a review of the parking design by a qualified
transportation consultant.
Note to Applicant: This review must analyze vehicle
turning movements into and out of the car elevator and
show the vehicle turning movements on the submitted
plans.
31. Confirmation that disability parking is required for the project
and, if so, the following conditions apply:
(i) Provision of minimum vertical clearance for the car
elevator and the underground parking.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 35
Note to Applicant: Updated section drawings are required
showing elevations and the vertical clearances labelled
on the drawings. 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required
for access and maneuvering to disability parking.
(ii) Design development to improve access to and from the
Class A bicycle parking.
Note to Applicant: Class A bicycle parking at grade is
preferred over the use of the car elevator.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 12 and 13, Block 524, District Lot 526, Plan
2354 to create a single parcel.
2. Release of Indemnity Agreement 3357M (commercial crossings)
prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights-of-way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing on the west
side of Ontario Street at the lane south of 17th Avenue.
(ii) Provision of speed humps in the lane south of 17th Avenue
between Ontario and Manitoba Streets. The number and
location of speed humps is to be determined by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of new 1.83 m (6 ft.) CIP light broom finish
concrete sidewalk with saw cut joints adjacent the site
on Ontario Street.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 36
(iv) Removal of the existing boulevard crossing on Ontario
Street and provision of full height curb, gutter and
sidewalk in its place.
(v) Upgraded street lighting adjacent the site frontages to
current standards including review of the existing lighting
to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(vi) Should the existing sidewalks on 17th Avenue adjacent
the site be significantly damaged during construction
activities then the sidewalk is to be replaced to current
City standards consisting of a minimum of 1.8 m wide
concrete walks or a width directed by the General
Manager of Engineering Services with a light broom finish
and saw cut joints. Replacement is to be determined at
the sole discretion of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
(vii) Provision of adequate water service to meet fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(viii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current
application lacks the details to determine if sewer main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including floor area, projected fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer to determine if
sewer system upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any sewer system upgrading that may be required.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad
mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro
kiosks) are to be located on private property with no reliance on

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 37
public property for placement of these features. In addition,
there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing
overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network
to accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Heritage
5. That the owner enters into a Heritage Restoration Covenant
(which will include a Section 219 Covenant, Statutory Right of
Way and Equitable Charge) for the rehabilitation and
conservation of the Turner Dairy at 6 West 17th Avenue (the
heritage building) to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning
and the Director of Legal Services, and that the agreement is
registered on title to the lands in the Land Title Office to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
Note to Applicant:
Please contact James Boldt in the Heritage Group at
james.boldt@vancouver.ca regarding the Heritage Restoration
Covenant.
The Heritage Designation By-law generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation: 6 West 17th Avenue
(Turner Dairy)”, would, if approved, designate the exterior of
the heritage building and the interior hanging roof truss system
as protected heritage property prior to enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.
The Applicant is to ensure that the consolidation of the lots
occurs only after the Heritage Designation By-law is enacted and
notice of the designation is put on title.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 38
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of
Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
7. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $568,000
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be
made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the
City, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The $568,000 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $284,000 towards the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Cambie Corridor Planning area;
(ii) $227,200 toward childcare and community facilities in
and around the Cambie Corridor Planning area; and
(iii) $56,800 to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to enable
heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 39
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
C. THAT Council add to the Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation
category, the existing building known as the Turner Dairy (the “heritage
building”) at 6 West 17th Avenue [Lots 12 and 13, Block 524, District Lot 526,
Plan 2354; PIDs: 014-202-387 and 014-202-425 respectively].
D. THAT the heritage designation of the heritage building’s exterior and the
interior hanging roof truss system at 6 West 17th Avenue [Lots 12 and 13,
Block 524, District Lot 526, Plan 2354; PIDs: 014-202-387 and 014-202-425
respectively] as protected heritage property, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation: 6 West 17th Avenue
(Turner Dairy)”, be approved.
E. THAT, subject to the enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Subdivision
By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation:
6 West 17th Avenue (Turner Dairy)”.
F. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and the expenditures of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the costs;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling the requirements imposed as a condition
of rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02650)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 40
5. REZONING: 400 West Georgia Street
An application by Merrick Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 400 West Georgia Street from Downtown District (DD) to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to permit a 24-storey office building
with commercial space on the ground floor. A building height of 91.8 metres
(301 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 17.87 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability reviewed the application and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 16 pieces of correspondence in support of the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Charles Gauthier, President, Downtown Vancouver Business Improvement Association
Norm Taylor, Managing Director, CBRE Ltd.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:43 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Merrick Architecture, on behalf of Homer Street Office
Properties Inc. (Westbank Projects Corp.), to rezone 400 West Georgia Street
[PID 030-317-304; Lot A Block 55 District Lot 541 Group 1 New Westminster
District Plan EPP75095] from Downtown District (DD) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 7.00 to
17.87 to allow for the construction of a 24-storey office building with a floor

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 41
area of 34,850 sq. m (375,135 sq. ft.), generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 400 West
Georgia Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Merrick Architecture, and stamped
“Received City Planning Department, October 12, 2017”, provided that
the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the interface with the
public realm at the ground floor at both Homer Street and
Georgia Street, with particular regard to the floor level for
the proposed patio areas.
Note to Applicant: For the proposed restaurant facing
Homer Street, the restaurant and outdoor patio floor level
should be at approximately the same level as the adjacent
sidewalk, and not sunken. The patio space should be set back to
5.5 m from the curb to provide room for public realm
improvements along Homer Street, including a wider sidewalk
and double row of Tulip street trees consistent with Library
Square Design Guidelines. Active uses should be provided along
the Georgia Street frontage and turning the corner to the lane
entry, including contiguous outdoor patio seating.
2. Design development to ensure that the planting strategy for the
green walls is sustainable over time, and design consideration is
given to the appearance of the screens without greenery.
Note to Applicant: Large-scale elevation and section details
should be provided for the proposed perforated metal screens
with ‘slots’ at the base to support growing medium and
planting. Plant species should be selected with due consideration
for solar orientation, water management and maintenance.
Elevation details should illustrate the appearance of the screens
without greenery.
3. Design development to the public realm consistent with the
expectations of the Library Square and Georgia Street Design
Guidelines.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 42
Note to Applicant: Street trees are to be provided in accordance
with the guidelines. The surface treatment should be pavers and
not a poured surface. The paver dimensions and colour should
reference and compliment the pavers at Library Square.
4. Design development to the penthouse elements to be more
consistent with the proposed tower design.
5. Design development to ensure compliance with the intent of the
City of Vancouver View Protection Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: Any change to the roof profile must not
create additional protrusion into the unshadowed portion of the
view corridor at the southeast corner of the building beyond the
approved form of development, as illustrated in the application
drawings dated October 12, 2017.
6. Provide high quality and durable exterior finishes consistent with
the rezoning application.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to maintain the proposed
quality in all aspects, including but not limited to appearance,
durability, and performance. Consider the use of fritted glass to
screen office furniture and fixtures. Further information should
be provided regarding the proposed automated interior blind
system intended to provide a more uniform appearance to the
building at night.
Sustainability
7. Any new building in the development must meet the
requirements of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings (as amended up to January 14, 2016), including a
minimum of 63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for
water efficiency and stormwater management and a 22%
reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010,
along with registration and application for certification of the
project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 43
Engineering
8. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for this rezoning application, including
details of both the Georgia Street public realm and Library
Precinct sidewalk treatments. The proposed lane treatments are
to be removed from the plans and a separate application to the
City Engineer is required.
9. The following notes are to be placed on the landscape and site
plans:
“The landscape plan is to be noted as ‘NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION’
and is to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a
minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any construction
proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive ‘For Construction’ approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site
Inspector for details.”
10. Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management plan that
meet the objectives of the Citywide Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and complies with the Sewer and Water Course
By-law. The plan shall achieve the following objectives:
(a) Retain or infiltrate the 6-month storm event volume (24
mm) on site;
(b) Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) on site; and
(c) Maintain the pre-development 2014 IDF-10 year storm
event rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post development
estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account for
climate change.
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure ongoing
operations of certain stormwater storage, rainwater
management and green infrastructure systems.
11. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 44
12. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
13. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
14. Provision of additional design grades that clearly show the
grades intended for the SRW setbacks such that water does not
drain over the property line and grades are consistent with City
building grades and typical City sidewalk grades (2-3% crossfall
max.).
15. Additional design grades are required at the property line
adjacent to all entries ensuring City building grades are
accurately met.
16. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show
containers and totters on plans for recycling and garbage needs
for all uses and refer to the Engineering garbage and recycling
storage facility design supplement for recommended dimensions
and quantities of bins. Note: Pick-up operations should not rely
on bins being stored on the street or lane for pick up, bins are to
be returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.
17. Clarification of the need for provision of car share vehicles to
meet the parking by-law and if necessary the following car share
condition must be satisfied and the number of car share vehicles
confirmed, prior to issuance of the development permit.
“Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure
the provision, operation and maintenance of up to 7 Shared
Vehicle(s) and the provision and maintenance of up to 7 Shared
Vehicle Parking Space(s) for use exclusively by such Shared
Vehicle(s), [with such parking spaces to be in addition to the
minimum parking spaces required by the Parking Bylaw], on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services, including
the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 45
(a) Provide up to 7 Shared Vehicle(s) to the development for
a minimum period of [3 years].
(b) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicle(s).
(c) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space(s)
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles.
(d) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space(s).
(e) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle.
(f) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the
Director of Legal Services may require and including a
covenant under Section 219 of the Land Title Act of
British Columbia, a statutory right of way, or other
instrument satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
securing these conditions.
(g) A letter from a car share organization, deliverable prior
to development permit, in support of the provision of
shared vehicles at this location at building occupancy, as
well as information from the Car Share Organization
about expected use in the area by non-residential users.
(h) Provision of vehicle use information and building
occupant usage of the car share vehicles from the car
share operator, and travel mode survey of building
occupants including questions regarding modal shift due
to the presence of shared vehicles on-site, approximately
1 year after building occupancy, the information is to be
in a form acceptable to the Director of Planning in
consultation with the General Manager of Engineering
Services. A letter of credit securing the delivery of the
requested statists will be required.
Note to Applicant: Shared vehicle spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9 m and the letter of
commitment from the car share company must also show
acceptance of the general location and configuration of
the shared vehicle spaces.”
18. Delete the knock-out panels shown on all parking levels from the
drawings.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 46
19. Provision of an updated Bunt Transportation Review as follows:
(a) Updated parking tables and analysis.
(b) Additional information on the calculations used to
support 2 Class B loading spaces.
(c) Suitability of a 70% occupancy rate;
(d) Clarification of the chances of loading demand exceeding
supply.
(e) Provide examples of precedent sites where 70%
occupancy is shown to work effectively.
20. Provision of a Loading Management Plan.
21. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(a) Provision of all stalls to be numbered and labelled.
(b) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and
through the loading bays.
Note to Applicant: Label minimum clearance for parking
levels on drawing, including overhead gate and
mechanical projections.
(c) Provision of additional design elevations on both sides of
the parking ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the
loading bays and at all entrances.
(d) Modification of the parking ramp design as follows:
(i) The slope must not exceed 10% for the first 20 ft.
from the property line.15% slopes may be
acceptable if a 7.5% to 10% transition ramp is
provided at the bottom for at least 4m in length.
(ii) Provision of two-way vehicle flow through the
curved sections of the main ramp down to P2.
(e) Provision of minimum 2.3 m vertical clearance for access
and manoeuvering to all disability parking and for Class A
loading.
(f) Modification of the loading bay design as follows:
(i) Provision of 3 Class B loading spaces, or 2 class B
loading spaces and 2 class A loading spaces to be
at grade with the remaining loading to be

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 47
provided on the first level of parking and designed
to be easily recognizable as loading spaces.
(ii) The slope and crossfall of the loading bays must
not exceed 5%.
(iii) Additional loading bay width for the second and
subsequent loading spaces (each additional space
must be 3.8 m wide).
22. Provision of a dedicated bicycle elevator with doors on both ends
to allow bicycles to easily roll in from one end and roll out the
other. The elevator to be a freight style elevator to comfortably
accommodate two people with two bicycles and provide the
following minimum interior dimensions (5’-6” x 6’-8”).
23. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s) and to be noted on the drawings.”
24. Clarify “fuel pump box” as noted adjacent the loading bays on
the site plan.
Note: The Development is to be serviced to the existing sewers
in the lane west of Homer Street.
25. Meet the January 1, 2018 Vancouver building code plumbing
fixture rates.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning and Development Services, the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Provision of a building setback and surface statutory right of way
(SRW) for public pedestrian use over a portion of the site,
adjacent to Georgia Street and Homer Street, to achieve a 5.5 m
offset distance from the back of the existing curb to the building
face. A survey plan prepared by a British Columbia Land Surveyor
showing the existing dimension from the back of the City curb to
the existing property line to determine the final setback and
SRW width is required. The SRW will be free of any encumbrance
such as structure, stairs, door swing and plantings at grade and is
to accommodate the parking levels P1 to P6 and levels 5 to the
roof within the SRW area.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 48
Note to Applicant: The sunken patio, raised stage, and vent
grate on Homer Street shown within the required SRW area are
to be relocated out of the SRW area and the grades within the
SRW are to generally meet City building grades.
2. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreements 95531M, 520739M
and extension agreement E58559 (all for commercial crossings);
and Easement and Indemnity Agreement BX300224, Statutory
Right of Way BX300226 and Equitable charge BX300228 (all
pertaining to an existing building encroachment) prior to
building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Confirmation of required parking such that the applicant can
identify the use of Parking Pay-in-lieu, Car Share relaxation or
off-site parking agreements or a combination of the above to
meet the required parking and where possible completion of
such arrangements prior to zoning enactment or issuance of the
related development permit. Note where off-site parking is
provided a development application may be necessary for the
parking donor site. If provision of Car Share vehicles is
contemplated, see condition (b)16 for requirements.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(a) Provision of Library Square streetscape design elements
on Homer Street including sidewalk paving, trees, tree
surrounds, street and pedestrian lighting, etc.
(b) Provision of the Ceremonial streetscape design elements
on Georgia Street including sidewalk paving, trees, tree
surrounds, street lighting, etc.
(c) Provision of standard concrete lane crossing on the south
side of 400 blk. Georgia Street at the lane west of Homer
Street.
(d) Provision of upgraded street lighting on all site frontages
to current standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design
as required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 49
(e) Provision of updated intersection lighting to LED standard
(all 4 corners of the traffic signal poles at the Homer
Street /Georgia Street Intersection are to receive LED
lighting).
(f) Confirmation that any relocated wood poles in the lane
adjacent the site will not impact existing lane lighting,
should any relocated pole include lighting impacts,
provision of and upgrading of the lane lighting to current
standard will be required.
(g) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work. Note:
as-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the
installed number of conduits, their final locations and
depths.
(h) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(i) Upgrade approximately 205 m of sanitary sewers as
follows:
(i) Upgrade the existing 200 mm Sanitary Sewer on
Robson Street, from the lane west of Homer to
Homer Street, to a 300 mm pipe.
(ii) Upgrade the existing 200 mm Sanitary Sewer
on Homer Street, from Robson Street to
Smithe Street to a 300 mm pipe.
Note: Final pipe size to be determined through detailed
sewer design process.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 50
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage
from the existing overhead electrical network on the street
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing overhead/
underground utility network to accommodate this development
will require approval by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical plant.
Please confirm that this space has been allocated and agreement
between both parties has been met.
Public Art
6. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager (a checklist will
be provided).
Note to Applicant: Please contact Karen Henry, Public Art –
Cultural Services, at 604.673.8282, to discuss your application.
Soils
7. If applicable:
(a) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Planning, Real
Estate and Facilities Management (Environmental
Contamination Team);
(b) As required by the Manager of Environmental Planning
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do
all things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(c) If required by the Manager of Environmental Planning and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Planning, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 51
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until a Certificate
of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the on-site and
off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, has been provided to the City.
Childcare Contribution
8. Pay to the City a contribution of $3,422,820 which the applicant
has offered to the City. Payment is to be made prior to
enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the City, and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services. The $3,422,820 is to be allocated toward childcare
facilities in and around the Metro Core area.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219
of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for
the CD-1, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 400 West Georgia Street”, be
approved.
C. THAT subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Noise Control By-law,
generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 400 West Georgia Street”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Parking By-law, generally
as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 400 West Georgia Street”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, February 20, 2018 52
E. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02651)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 8:51 pm.
* * * * *