REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 30, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
January 30, 2018, at 9:38 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Janice MacKenzie, City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and gave thanks for their generosity and hospitality on these lands.
PROCLAMATION – Lunar New Year Celebration Week
The Mayor proclaimed the week of February 14 to 21, 2018, as Lunar New Year Celebration
Week in the city of Vancouver and invited the following people to the podium to accept the
Proclamation and say a few words:
• Chinese Benevolent Association - Jun Ing
• Vancouver Chinatown Merchants’ Association - Brian Yu
• SUCCESS - Donnie Wing
• Chinese Freemasons - Cecil Fung
• Shon Yee - Brian Jang

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being
considered for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another
position appointed by the city;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the
Council considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests
of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an
activity, work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of
the Council, could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they
were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – January 16, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of January 16, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 3
2. Public Hearing – January 16 and 18, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of January 16 and 18, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Regular Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – January 17, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting of January 17, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council adopt Communication 1, Administrative Report 1, Policy Reports 1 to 4,
and 6, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REPORT REFERENCE
1. 2018 Assessment Roll
Paul Borgo, Acting Assessor, and Grant McDonald, Deputy Assessor, BC Assessment, provided a
presentation on the 2018 Assessment Roll, including assessment cycle and key dates, change
in market movement, total roll value, distribution of value change, and market hot spots.
Mr. Borgo and Mr. McDonald, along with staff from Financial Planning and Analysis, responded
to questions.
2. United 2026 Bid
Michelle Collens, Manager, Sport Hosting Vancouver, along with Ken Cretney, Chair, Board of
Directors, Tourism Vancouver, Kjeld Brodsgaard, President, BC Soccer, and Bob Lenarduzzi,
President, Vancouver Whitecaps FC, provided a presentation on the United 2026 Bid,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 4
including host city candidates, reasons for the bid, economic impact, timeline, agreements
needed, obligations, and next steps.
Ms. Collens, along with Malcolm Bromley, General Manager, Parks and Recreation, and the
City Manager, responded to questions.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT, subject to B through G below, the City sign and deliver the Host City
Agreement, Host City Declaration, Legal Opinion and any ancillary documents
and the City recommend the Park Board approve of signing and delivering the
related Training Site Agreement, Legal Opinion, and any ancillary documents
(collectively, the “Vancouver 2026 Bid Documents”) to the Canada Soccer
Association (“CSA”) and/or United Bid Committee (“UBC”) in support of their
bid (the “2026 Bid”) to have Canada, Mexico and the USA jointly host the FIFA
2026 Men’s World Cup in North America.
B. THAT, subject to C through G below, the City enter into a multi-party
cost-sharing agreement (“Multi-Party Agreement”) with the Federal and
Provincial Governments (as well as other Canadian candidate cities such as
Edmonton, Montreal, and Toronto, and their respective provincial
governments, and possibly other bid participants) whereby Canada and/or
British Columbia agrees to carry out for the City and its Park Board or
reimburse the City and its Park Board for the costs of carrying out those
obligations assumed by them signing the Vancouver 2026 Bid Documents (save
and except for such obligations and costs such as providing the Fan Fest which
would be incremental to the current City operating budget, and performing
normal City and Park Board services within our normal operating budgetary
framework as was done for the 2010 Winter Olympics).
C. THAT the Vancouver 2026 Bid Documents be delivered on such terms and
conditions (“Bid Release Conditions”) as are satisfactory to the City Manager
and City Solicitor to ensure that the Canada Soccer Association and United Bid
Committee are not legally authorized to release them to FIFA as part of the
2026 Bid unless and until such Bid Release Conditions are satisfied.
D. THAT the Bid Release Conditions be that the City has entered into a Multi-Party
Agreement satisfactory to the City Manager and City Solicitor, or the Bid
Release Conditions have been modified to the satisfaction of the City Manager
and City Solicitor so as to provide to the City and its Park Board substantially
the same degree of protection from financial and legal liability to that
intended to be achieved by the Multi-Party Agreement.
E. THAT the City Manager and City Solicitor be authorized to execute and deliver
all legal agreements contemplated by A to D above (including for further
certainty any related agreements between the City and other bid partners such

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 5
as BC Pavilion Corporation, TransLink, or other related parties such as Canada
Soccer Association, United Bid Committee, FIFA or any affiliates of them) and
that the City Solicitor be authorized to execute and deliver all legal opinions
and any ancillary documents required in connection with the Vancouver 2026
Bid Documents.
F. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by the execution and
delivery of any of the Vancouver 2026 Bid Documents except to the extent
authorized by the City Manager and City Solicitor in accordance with the Bid
Release Conditions.
G. THAT Council direct the Mayor to communicate Vancouver’s support of the
2026 Bid to British Columbia and Canada and urge them to fully support
Canada’s inclusion in the United 2026 Bid.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02547)
3. Vancouver’s Mobility Future: “Automating” Policy into Sustainable Results
Following the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
January 17, 2018, Vancouver City Council postponed this item to the Regular Council meeting
on January 30, 2018, due to time constraints.
Dale Bracewell, Branch Manager, Transportation Planning, provided a presentation on
Vancouver’s Mobility Future: “Automating” Policy into Sustainable Results, including auto
industry megatrends, potential benefits and risks, potential rate of automated vehicle
adoption, transportation plan targets, preparing for the future of mobility, and next steps.
* * * * *
At noon it was,
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the length of the meeting be extended to complete the Report Reference.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
Council agreed to email questions to staff regarding “Vancouver’s Mobility Future:
“Automating” Policy into Sustainable Results”, and have staff prepare a memo with the
responses, to be distributed to all Council members.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 6
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12:02 pm and reconvened at 2:06 pm.
* * * * *
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. REZONING: 58 West Hastings Street
On January 16, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on January 30, 2018, as Unfinished
Business.
Councillors Ball and Jang advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the Public Hearing
they had missed and would therefore be participating in discussion and decision on the
application.
Arts, Culture and Community Services staff, along with the City Manager, responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the application by the Vancouver Chinatown Foundation (prospective
leaseholder) on behalf of the City of Vancouver (property owner) and
Vancouver Coastal Health (prospective healthcare operator) to rezone
58 West Hastings Street [PID 027-736-032; Lot 1, Block 29, District Lot 541,
Group 1, New Westminster District Plan, BCP39144] from
DD (Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to
increase the floor space ratio from 5.00 to 6.40 to allow for the construction of
an 10-storey mixed-use building with commercial uses and an integrated health
services centre on floors one to three, and residential units above, all of which
will be secured social housing, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated November 28, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 58 West
Hastings Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by W.T. Leung Architects Inc., and
stamped “Received City Planning Department, October 5, 2017”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 7
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve liveability of the micro dwelling
units by increasing the ceiling heights on the 4th to 8th floors to
9 ft.
Note to Applicant: This is to better respond to the Micro Dwelling
Policies and Guidelines which recommends a higher ceiling
height to increase the amount of natural lighting and ventilation.
Increasing the ceiling heights will entail the floor-to-floor height
and the overall building height be increased accordingly. In any
case, the total building height to top of roof slab should not
exceed 33.21 m (108.96 ft.) This ceiling height increase should
only apply to floors 4 to 8, while floors 9 to 10 will remain at
8.5 ft.
2. Design development to strengthen the sawtooth pattern by
further developing the topmost cornices.
Note to Applicant: This is to better respond to Victory Square
Guidelines which recommend a pronounced sawtooth roofline for
sites wider than 23 m (75 ft.) to complement the existing finer
grain historic buildings. This may be achieved by introducing
projecting cornices for the topmost portions of the building
between gridlines 2 to 4, 6 to 9, and 12 to 13. The cornices at
these three locations should be treated differently so as to
reinforce the appearance of this development being a series of
different buildings. Also consider lowering the topmost parapets
along gridline D, and between gridlines 2 and 6, and gridlines 9
and 12 to further accentuate the sawtooth pattern. (See sections
4.1.8, 4.1.9 and 4.3.1.4 (d) of the Victory Square Guidelines.)
The height increase for the parapets should however comply
with the allowances for height overage outlined in section
10.11.1 (a)(i) of the Zoning and Development By-law.
3. Design development to improve the overall façade composition
by introducing some lower cornices.
Note to Applicant: This is to better ground the bases of the
different portions of the development in order to better respond
to the Victory Square Guidelines and to the older historic
buildings in the area. More pronounced cornices should be at the
following locations: Level 3 height between gridlines 2 to 4;
Level 4 height between gridlines 6 to 9; and Level 3 height

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 8
between gridlines 12 to 13. (See section 4.3.1 of the Victory
Square Guidelines.)
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
4. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings.
Sustainability
5. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of
LEED® Gold rating, with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to applicant: Provide an updated LEED® checklist and
sustainable design strategy at time of Development Permit
application outlining how the proposed points will be achieved, a
letter of confirmation from an accredited professional
confirming that the building has been designed to meet these
goals, and a receipt including registration number from the
CaGBC. The checklist and strategy should be incorporated into
the drawing set. Application for certification of the project will
also be required under the policy.
Landscape
6. Design development to improve sustainability and expand urban
agriculture programming to include shared garden plots and
edible plants.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamental as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to the Urban Agriculture
Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide maximum
solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided with

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 9
amenities such as, raised beds for 30% of residential units, water
for irrigation, potting bench, tool storage and composting.
7. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters to ensure long term viability of the
landscape.
Note to Applicant: Planters may need to be altered to provide
adequate depth and continuous soil volumes/ Growing mediums
and planting depths should exceed BCSLA standard.
8. At the development permit submission stage:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for the proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate the
proposed plan materials (with common botanical names,
plant sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light
fixtures, site grading and any other landscape features.
Plant material should be listed in a Plan list that is clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should
be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4” =1’-0” scale
to illustrate typical proposed landscape elements
including planters on structures, benches, fences, gates,
arbours and trellises, and other features. Planter section
details must confirm depth of proposed planting on
structures is deep enough to accommodate rootballs of
proposed trees well into the future.
(iii) Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to
public realm interface facing the street, confirming a
delineated private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails,
fences and planters. The location of the underground
parking slab should be included in the section.
(iv) A high efficiency automatic irrigation system to be
provided for all planters on slab.
(v) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 10
(vi) New proposed street trees should be coordinated with
the park Board and Engineering and noted “Final species,
quantity and spacing to the approval of City Engineer and
Park Board”. Contact Eileen Curran (604.871.6131) of
Engineering Streets Division regarding street tree spacing
and quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604.257.8587) of
Park Board regarding tree species.
Engineering
9. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection and
removal, or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
10. Confirmation that all westerly portions of the building are
deleted from the easement area as shown on Plan EPP38574
(Easement CA3611308).
11. Provision of a separate application to the City Engineer for all
sidewalk improvements. Please update the landscape plan with
the following statements and notes and submit a copy directly to
Engineering for review:
(i) “All sidewalks between the curb and property line are to
be reconstructed fully at the applicant’s expense.”
(ii) “A landscape plan is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the
start of any construction proposed for public property.
No work on public property may begin until such plans
receive “For Construction” approval and related permits
are issued. Please contact Kevin Cavell at 604.873.7773
for details.”
12. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show
containers and totters on plans for recycling and garbage needs,
and refer to the Engineering garbage and recycling storage
facility design supplement for recommended dimensions and
quantities of bins. Note: pick-up operations should not rely on
bins being stored on the street or lane for pick up, bins are to be
returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 11
13. Provision of door swing over the south property line to a
maximum of 1’-0”.
14. Provision of a canopy application for canopies that encroach over
the property line. A separate application to the City Engineer is
required.
15. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Modify floor plate to provide a more efficient parkade
layout.
Note to Applicant: Engineering recommends shifting
Clinic Elevator Core south in line with adjacent parking to
provide a straight 21’8” manoeuver aisle.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp and ramp sections at all break points, and both
sides of the loading bays, throughout the parking level.
(iii) Confirm the ramp slope and length from elevation 14.5 to
13.5 ft. at Commercial small car stalls 3 to 6.
Note to Applicant: Manoeuvering aisle slope is not to
exceed 5%.
(iv) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, security gates and mechanical projections for
the main ramp, the parking level and through the loading
bays.
Note to Applicant: Minimum 2.3 m (7’6”) vertical
clearance is required for disability parking and 3.8 m
(12’6”) vertical clearance is required for the Class B
loading.
(v) Provision of an 8’6” stall width for small car stalls next to
a wall.
(vi) Provision of 20 ft. drive aisle width at the residential
security gate.
(vii) Number and dimension the Class B loading spaces.
(viii) Modification of the loading bay design as follows:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 12
Provide double loading bay throats for the Class B
o
loading spaces.
Provision of additional loading bay width for the
o
second and subsequent loading spaces (each
additional space must be 3.8 m wide).
Note to Applicant: Explore pulling back the main parkade
ramp overhead gate and providing a 5% slope at the top
of the parkade ramp to accommodate the standard west
load throat for the loading bay at gridline 04.
(ix) Clarify that the garbage rooms are located at the rear of
the loading bays and confirm space is provided for
loading operations.
(x) Provision of End of Trip facilities as per By-law.
(xi) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
(xii) Provide automatic openers on the doors providing access
to the bicycle rooms.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp or elevator, if
required.
16. Sanitary Main – Flow monitoring to capture one week of dry flow
and one week of wet flow required at the manhole along lane
south of Hastings Street, between Carrall Street and Columbia
Street. Results are to be provided in the form of raw digital data
and a summary report by a professional engineer is required.
Note to applicant: Contact COV Sewers Design department prior
to commencing the monitoring. No Upgrade Required.
Housing Policy and Projects
17. Establish a Community Advisory Committee, made up of
representatives from the City of Vancouver, Vancouver Coastal
Health, Vancouver Chinatown Foundation and no less than four
DTES residents, in order to provide input on the building design
and neighborhood fit criteria, and to develop a governance
framework for the operations of the building that meets the
needs of its residents.
18. The leaseholder shall provide a draft Operations Management
Plan (OMP) that includes information on the selected operator
and the management of the building, to be finalized prior to

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 13
occupancy. The OMP will outline how the social housing units
will be manage and operated, including information on how
common areas (such as lobbies, shared halls, elevators and
amenity spaces) will be maintained and accessed by all residents
of the building, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as necessary,
and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Provision of a building setback and surface Statutory Right of
Way (SRW) on Hastings Street adjacent to the site to achieve a
4.5 m (15 ft.) sidewalk from the back of the existing curb to the
building face. A legal survey of the existing dimensions from the
back of the City curb is required to determine the final setback
and SRW dimension.
Note to Applicant: The SRW is to be free of all encumbrances at
grade such as structures, stairs, door swing, landscape and
bicycle parking. The encroachments shown below grade and at
the third storey and above are to be accommodated within the
SRW agreement. Should the final setback be less than 2 ft. no
SRW will be required.
2. Provision of a shared use loading agreement for use of one of the
Class B loading spaces for residential purposes for the loading
bays on the west side of the building. The shared use agreement
should specify allocated time periods for shared use by
residential versus commercial units. The residential and
commercial loading spaces should be labelled on the plans.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designated, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development for the site will be
issued until the security for the services are provided.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 14
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that me be required. Note an
interconnected water service will be required for this
development site.
(ii) Relocation of the wood poles in the land that obstruct
access to the Class B loading bays. Written confirmations
from all utility companies that use the poles are
required. Should relocated poles results in a loss of
existing lane lighting then replacement lane lighting is to
be provided to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of a new CIP light broom finish concrete
sidewalk with saw cut joints on West Hastings Street
adjacent to the site, in keep with the area standards.
Note to Applicant: A potential change to nearby transit
stops may impact the west edge of the City sidewalk (up
to 20 m East from West PL). A transit stop may be located
such that the sidewalk design and proposed street trees
may not be constructible as currently planned. The final
design, tree locations and number of street trees will be
confirmed prior to sidewalk construction. Improvements
to accommodate a bus stop such as new signage and
related works are to be supplied as part of any sidewalk
improvement.
(iv) Upgraded street lighting on West Hastings Street adjacent
to the site to current LED standards. A separate review is
required by the General Manager of Engineering Services.
(v) Accommodation of a potential future bus stop on Hastings
Street adjacent to this site, including: removal of two
most westerly proposed new street trees/tree surrounds
shown on the Tree Management and Public Realm Plan;
provision of a continuous awning along the building
frontage along the most westerly retail unit (shown in the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 15
ground floor plan as CRU1); and, bench located under
awning for transit passengers.
(vi) Bus stop layout and design is to be determined by
Transportation Design and Coast Mountain Bus Company.
Bench layout is to be determined by Street Activities.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plants, which include
but are not limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted
transformers and kiosks (including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be
located on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features. There will be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch. The applicant may be required to show details of how
the site will be provided with all services being underground.
Housing Policy and Projects
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Community Services to
enter into a Housing Agreement for 60 years or the life of the
building, whichever is greater, which will contain the following
terms and conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less
than one month at a time;
(iv) A requirement that a minimum of 76 units (33%) be
rented for no more than the shelter component of Income
Assistance;
(v) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of
“social housing” in the applicable City development cost
levy by-law; and
(vi) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 16
Note to Applicant: this condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by
by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as Covenants
pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-law.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend Schedule A of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 58 West Hastings
Street”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 58 West Hastings Street”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 58 West Hastings Street”.
E. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (b) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 58 West Hastings Street”, the
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law,
subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of
the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Community Services.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 17
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02548)
2. Freedom of the City Award Program and Policy – Revisions
January 2, 2018
At the Regular Council meeting on January 16, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the
above-noted matter to the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on January 17, 2018, as Unfinished Business, in order
to receive more information from staff.
Subsequently, on January 17, 2018, Vancouver City Council referred the matter to the Regular
Council meeting on January 30, 2018, as Unfinished Business, due to time constraints.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT Council approve revisions to the Freedom of the City Award program.
B. THAT Council approve the revised Freedom of the City Policy attached as
Appendix A to the Administrative Report dated January 2, 2018, entitled
“Freedom of the City Award Program and Policy – Revisions”.
carried (Vote No. 02550)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 18
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as “C” the motion:
THAT Council approve the following modifications to the Freedom of the City
Award Program and Policy to offer recipients:
1. A parking decal that allows up to 3 hours of free City metered parking;
2. A free public transit pass;
3. A free membership in Vancouver’s public Mobi bike-share;
4. An annual pair of entrance tickets to the PNE Fair, the Vancouver
Museum, Vancouver Art Gallery and VanDusen Botanical Gardens.
LOST (Vote No. 02562)
(Councillors Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
Note: As per section 145.1(2) of the Vancouver Charter, if the votes of the members of the
Council present at the meeting at the time of the vote are equal for and against a question,
the question is defeated; therefore the tie vote above does not carry.
The amendment having lost the main motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 02550) with
Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr and De Genova opposed)
3. TEXT AMENDMENT: 4176 Alexandra Street (York House School)
On January 18, 2018, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public Hearing on the
above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on January 30, 2018, as Unfinished
Business.
Council had before it a memorandum dated January 9, 2018, from the Assistant Director of
Planning - Vancouver South, bringing forward three additional recommendations regarding
conditions of approval, as follows:
• For condition (b)30., the number of students to be accommodated for pick-up
and drop off activity within the new underground parking area has been
changed from 150 students to a minimum of 115 students, subject to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services. This amendment
reflects the physical capacity constraints of the proposed parkade while still
mitigating the impact of increased enrolment on local streets.
• For condition (c)4.(ii), the language has been updated to reflect that the three
area schools, including York House School, Little Flower Academy, and
Shaughnessy Elementary, have an existing commitment to off-set school start
times.
• For condition (c)4.(iii), additional flexibility on monitoring and managing

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 19
pick-up and drop off activity around the school has been added so that York
House School is able to pursue a variety of management strategies as future
circumstances may dictate.
The Summary and Recommendation for this item had been revised to reflect the changes
outlined in the memorandum.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated January 29, 2018, from the Assistant Director
of Planning - Vancouver South, which included, for informational purposes, a summary of
strategies and measures to address potential transportation impacts.
Councillors Ball and Jang advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the Public Hearing
they had missed and would therefore be participating in discussion and decision on the
application.
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
The motion below contains changes which occurred at the Council meeting, and are shown
below in bold italics:
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT the application by Acton Ostry Architects on behalf of the York House
School Society, the registered owner, to amend CD-1 (288) By-law No. 7045 for
4176 Alexandra Street [PID: 007-993-811; Block 670, District Lot 526, Plan
13908] to permit the development of a phased master plan for the York House
School campus, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.85 to 1.71 FSR,
increase the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 16.2 m (53 ft.), and amend the
accessory auditorium use and maximum student enrolment, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Text Amendment: 4176 Alexandra Street (York House School)”, be
approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Acton Ostry Architects on behalf of
the York House School Society, and stamped “Received Planning and
Development Services (Rezoning Centre), December 15, 2016”, provided
that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 20
Urban Design
1. Provision of cohesive building design between the senior school
and the proposed north and south additions (Buildings A, B and
C). Design of the north and south additions should be generally
in-keeping with the design of the existing senior school. This
includes building heights, setbacks, and architectural and
landscape expression.
2. Provision of a significant setback for the top storey of the
multi-purpose building (Building D) from the floor below for the
entire building length along 26th Avenue in order to minimize
the impact of increased building height.
Note to Applicant: A significant setback should be, at a
minimum, 10-15 ft.
3. Design development to reduce the solid blank wall of the
multi-purpose building (Building D) facing 26th Avenue through
an improved fenestration pattern at grade that is in keeping with
the overall design of the school campus architecture.
4. Design development to provide varied landscaping along 26th
Avenue, including layering and filigree in front of the
multi-purpose building (Building D) that is in keeping with the
overall landscape design.
5. Provision of an intensive green roof on the multi-purpose
building (Building D), including a significant landscaped buffer
from the 26th Avenue frontage and significant planting.
Note to Applicant: The significant landscaped buffer should be a
minimum of 12 ft. and have an average of 20 ft. The intent of
the landscaped buffer is to mitigate any potential noise or
privacy issues for the adjacent residential neighbourhood from
the proposed rooftop access. No guardrails should be placed at
the 26th Avenue building edge rooftop.
6. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building is encouraged in the application for a development
permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 21
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Mail theft; and
(iii) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
8. Design development to provide adequate buffering at residential
street edges, to mitigate impacts on the surrounding
neighbourhood, while orienting a similar residential street scale
of layered planting to the street.
9. Coordination of Landscape Plan with Arborist Report, matching
the dimensioned tree protection plan shown in the Arborist
Report on the Tree Management Plan.
10. Provision of approval from the Park Board for proposed
City-owned tree removals.
11. Design development to improve sustainability and expand
programming to include edible plants.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals,
integrated into the landscape design. Student shared gardening
areas should reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s
Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should
provide maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and
provide amenities such as raised beds, water for irrigation,
potting benches, tool storage, and composting.
12. A full Landscape Plan for the proposed landscape is to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant
materials (with common and botanical names, plant sizes and
quantities), paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading
and other landscape features. Plant materials should be listed in
a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The
Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
13. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’ scale to illustrate
typical proposed landscape elements including planters on
structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details must confirm that the
depth of proposed planting on structures is deep enough to
accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the future.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 22
14. Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the building to public
realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated
private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences
and planters. The location of the underground parking slab
should be included in the section.
15. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen gas
meters and parking garage vents in a manner which minimizes
their impact on the architectural expression and the project’s
open space and public realm.
16. Trellis and vines to be provided over the underground garage
access ramps.
17. New proposed street trees should be noted “Final species,
quantity and spacing to the approval of the City Engineer and
Park Board”. Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of
Engineering Streets Division regarding street tree spacing and
quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board
regarding tree species.
18. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for
all planters on parkade slab and minimum of hose bibs to be
provided for landscape on grade.
19. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings. All existing light poles should be shown.
Sustainability
20. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing
buildings on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition
waste (excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
21. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 23
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
22. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 21, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e.
Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
23. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the site’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum of 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
24. Confirmation that any new construction will result in the need
for temporary shoring of public property including encroachment
of the shoring system and, if so, please provide construction
details to determine ability to meet municipal design standards
for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual section 02596
and Encroachment By law (#4243) section 3A) and access around
existing and future utilities adjacent your site.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 24
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
25. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building(s)
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way.
26. Provision of driveway crossing design to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services. Confirmation from the
Park Board that the existing tree on 26th Avenue can be
relocated for the new driveway crossing as indicated on drawing
L1.0.
Note to Applicant: A separate crossing application to the General
Manager of Engineering Services is required.
27. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought by this rezoning including the following
note to be placed on the landscape plan:
“The landscape plan is to be noted as ‘NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION’
and is to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a
minimum of eight weeks prior to the start of any construction
proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive ‘For Construction’ approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering Building Site
Inspector for details. Please provide a copy of the updated plan
to Engineering for review.
28. Confirm existing garbage storage areas and bin provision and
confirm that it is adequate for the additions to the school. If
not, clarify the extent of added garbage provision.
29. Provision of on-site pick-up and drop-off and the redesign of the
underground parking to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services. On-site pick-up and drop-off is required
to address the current neighbourhood congestion related to
on-street pick-up and drop-off activity and any future increase in
traffic volume and congestion around the school. The local
streets widths around the site are approximately 7.4 m in width
or less and congestion occurs when vehicles stop on both sides of
the street.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 25
30. Design development to allow for safe and efficient utilization of
the underground parking area for pick-up and drop-off activity
for a minimum of 115 students on a daily basis, or other number
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services. The following is required:
(i) Wider stalls and maneuvering aisle widths than the
required minimum to improve maneuvering.
(ii) Provide a pedestrian refuge/drop-off area with counter
clockwise circulation within the parkade to eliminate the
students having to cross the maneuvering aisle to exit the
parkade.
(iii) Provide a direct connection from the drop-off area to the
elevator.
(iv) Provide corner cuts on all corners required to achieve
continuous two-way flow within the parkade.
Note to Applicant: Pick-up and drop-off capacity for
approximately 115 students should be provided to ensure on-
streets operations will be improved over existing conditions.
While several measures are outlined in the updated traffic study
to reduce traffic impacts on the surrounding neighbourhood,
they may not effectively mitigate the increased student
population. In this case, some pick-up and drop-off activity may
need to be conducted on-site to ensure no new impacts to the
neighbourhood. This may require additional parking to be
created so as not to conflict with staff parking needs. A design
should be reviewed by a Transportation Engineer to ensure it will
operate efficiently and safely. Transportation supports
development of measurable criteria to determine the necessity
of on-site pick-up and drop-off based on observed traffic
patterns post-development, noting that improvements over
existing conditions are expected. Criteria shall be developed
during the development permit process.
31. Design development to allow for on-site storage of school buses.
32. Provision of a complete tech table showing the calculations for
the minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the
number of spaces being provided with all stalls numbered and
labelled.
33. Provision of on-site loading and maneuvering.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 26
Note to Applicant: No loading is shown on the architectural
drawings and backing in or out to the street from the Class B
loading space(s) is not supported. Provide turning swaths to
confirm on-site maneuvering is being achieved.
34. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
35. Confirm all planting on street right-of-way are to be maintained
by the adjacent property owner and conform to the applicable
standards.
Note to Applicant: All plant material within the same continuous
planning area which is located on street right-of-way within
10 m, measured from the corner, of an intersection, pedestrian
crossing, entrance to a driveway or other conflict areas where
sightlines need to be maintained for safety reasons, shall not
exceed a mature height of 0.6 m, measured from the sidewalk.
All plant material within the street right-of-way which is located
outside of the areas described in the bullet above shall not
exceed 1 m in height, measured from the sidewalk. Plants shall
be planted in such a way as to not encroach on the sidewalk,
street, lane, and/or bike lane. Provide tree and planting
selections.
36. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, within the parking area, both
sides of the loading bay, and at all entrances.
(ii) Provision of minimum vertical clearance for the main
ramp, security gates, and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical clearance
is required for access and maneuvering to all disability spaces.
3.8 m of vertical clearance is required for Class B loading spaces
and maneuvering.
(iii) Dimension all parking and loading spaces, column
encroachments, and maneuvering aisle widths.
(iv) Provision of drawings A100 and A101 at1:100 scale.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 27
(v) Provide details for the layout of the Class A bicycle
spaces with all spaces and access aisles dimensioned.
Low Carbon Strategy
37. The proposed approach to the site heating and cooling,
developed in collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior
to the issuance of any development permit, to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
38. Design of the development shall adhere to the following general
requirements:
(i) The approach to site heating and cooling shall
incorporate a development-scale low carbon energy
system that reduces the development’s greenhouse gas
emissions at buildout by a minimum of 50% relative to a
business as usual (“BAU”) approach to heating and cooling
(where BAU assumes high-efficiency natural gas boilers
for space heating, ventilation, and domestic hot water
heating, and chillers and/or cooling towers for any space
cooling requirements).
(ii) The energy system for the development shall be designed
in such a way as to enable energy metering and the
monitoring of performance metrics during system
operation for the purpose of optimizing system
performance and preparing system performance reports.
The applicant shall refer to the Performance Monitoring
and Reporting Requirements for Low Carbon Energy
Systems for a summary of minimum requirements. The
applicant will be required to demonstrate compliance
with these requirements prior to issuance of a building
permit.
Social Policy
39. Provide a Sustainable Food System Plan to include a minimum of
three food systems assets as described in the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, to the satisfaction of the
Director of Social Policy.
Note to Applicant: The application identifies three food assets
that can count towards the required three food assets that must
be delivered as part of the development. The three identified

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 28
food assets are (1) edible landscaping, (2) on-site organics
management, and (3) create a ‘locally sourced food program’ in
the cafeteria. The following comments outline ways to
strengthen the submission.
(i) Edible landscaping:
a. Provide more details on the location and design of
the edible landscaping.
b. Explore education and training opportunities in
the gardens for students and connect such
programs to the school kitchen/cafeteria.
c. Include shared garden plots allowing for
educational opportunities. Refer also to condition
(b)11.
d. Clarify if the rooftop of Building D will include a
food growing and/or garden component.
(ii) On-site organics management:
a. Additional details will be required, including, at a
minimum: location, type of machine, and
management structure.
(iii) Create a ‘locally sourced food program’ in the cafeteria:
a. Consider student/youth education and training
opportunities in the school kitchen that support
food literacy, education and cooking skills.
b. Build in cooking programs as part of the overall
school kitchen and food program.
c. Design development to the school
kitchen/cafeteria to enable student cooking and
education program opportunities.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangement for the following:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 29
Engineering Services
1. Provision of on-site pick-up and drop-off through use of the
proposed south wing parkade. Should the traffic management
initiatives noted in this report not alleviate traffic circulation
and pick-up and drop-off concerns raised by this rezoning
application then the proposed south wing parkade is to be
utilized to provide pick-up and drop-off for students. The
parkade is to achieve a level of design that satisfies the Parking
and Loading Design Supplement and identified design
improvements that best address a safe pick-up and drop-off
operation. Legal arrangements will be required.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-
site works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of
the site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights-of-way (ROWs) for the
services are provided. No development permit for the site will
be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water services to meet the fire
flow demands of the project. The current application
lacks the details to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Please supply project details including
projected fire flow demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant
load, and domestic water demands to determine if water
main upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any water system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of upgraded storm and sanitary sewer mains as
follows:
a. The existing combined mains on Alexandra Street
and 26th Avenue are undersized and are required
to be upgraded to better serve the development.
The applicant is to provide approximately 115 m
of minimum 200 mm sanitary and minimum 600
mm storm mains on 26th Avenue and
approximately 103 m of minimum 200 mm sanitary
and minimum 600 mm storm mains on Alexandra
Street. In addition, the site is to tie all drainage

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 30
into the sewers on 26th Avenue. The applicant is
to abandon the second service connection on King
Edward Avenue.
Note to Applicant: Engineering Services will
review any phasing plan or analysis provided by a
professional engineer related to this upgrade with
the final determination on the extent of upgrading
to be determined at the sole discretion of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meet the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
a. Retain or infiltrate 50% of the 6-month storm
event volume (24 mm) on-site;
b. Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) on-site; and
c. Maintain the pre-development two year storm
event rate. The pre-development estimate shall
utilized the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post-
development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be
required to ensure ongoing operations of certain
stormwater storage, rainwater management and
green infrastructure systems.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations, and depths.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 31
(v) Provision of a new minimum 1.83 m (6 ft.) CIP light
broom finish sidewalk with saw cut joints on West 26th
Avenue.
(vi) Provision of a new minimum 2.44 m (8 ft.) CIP light
broom finish sidewalk with saw cut joints on Alexandra
Street.
(vii) Provision of a new minimum 2.14 m (7 ft.) CIP light
broom finish sidewalk with saw cut joints on West King
Edward Avenue.
(viii) Provision of a new minimum 3.36 m (11 ft.) CIP light
broom finish sidewalk with saw cut joints on Granville
Street to improve the available pedestrian space and bus
stop operations. Adjustments to the bus stop and bus
shelter on Granville Street and trimming/removal of
existing hedges along the Granville Street frontage is
required to achieve this.
Note to Applicant: All sidewalk widths are preferred
widths for assigned frontages and are subject to in-field
design and detailed reviews of construction impacts on
existing street trees and impacts on adjacent private
landscaping encroachments to confirm preferred widths
can be constructed, all subject to the sole discretion of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
(ix) Provision of a sidewalk widening at the southwest corner
of King Edward Avenue and Granville Street to improve
the pedestrian waiting area and updated curb ramps and
curb returns at the corner, to be completed with Phase 1
of the development. The widening would be from the
back of the new sidewalks and be approximately 3x3 m
square in size and can be achieved on City right-of-way
but extends to the property line.
(x) Provision of a bus shelter and bus stop adjustments on
King Edward Avenue to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. Additional concrete
paving in the bus bulge on King Edward Avenue (Stop
51506 EB W King Edward FS Alexandra) to accommodate
bus shelter installation and minor stop adjustments.
(xi) Provision of new curb ramps and a new curb return to
current standards at the southwest corner of Granville
Street and 26th Avenue.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 32
(xii) Provision of a new curb ramp on the northwest corner of
Alexandra Street and 26th Avenue and a marked
crosswalk on the north leg of Alexandra Street and 26th
Avenue.
(xiii) Provision of upgraded street lighting on all site frontages
and new pedestrian lighting on Alexandra Street and 26th
Avenue to current standards including a review of the
existing lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting
design as required.
(xiv) Provision of signal modifications at the intersection of
Alexandra Street and King Edward Avenue to include
pedestrian countdown timers and LED lighting.
(xv) Provision of signal modifications at the Granville Street
and King Edward Avenue to include eastbound/westbound
left turn arrows and LED intersection lighting.
(xvi) Provision of asphalt paving of the lane west of Granville
Street between 26th Avenue and Nanton Avenue including
the installation of speed humps in the lane.
(xvii) Provision of geometric changes for the corner bulge at
Alexandra Street and 26th Avenue to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services. The site
plan proposes an extension of the existing bulge on the
east side of Alexandra Street at 26th Avenue to
accommodate the new driveway entrance. A detailed
review is required to confirm if the bulge can be
extended.
(xviii) Provision of updated parking regulations on Alexandra
Street, 26th Avenue, and Nanton Avenue where
improvements to traffic circulation can be achieved with
minimal impacts to residents.
3. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features. In addition, there will
be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead
electrical network on the street right of way. Any alterations to
the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 33
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
4. Provision of a Traffic Management Strategy to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services, including a letter
of commitment from the school, is required that acknowledges
and commits to the following:
(i) Provision of up to $63,000 for traffic calming measures in
the neighbourhood to address impacts of existing school
traffic and potential impacts of additional traffic
generated from the school expansion.
(ii) Continued participation and a commitment to lead the
Traffic Management Committee for the three schools
(York House, Little Flower Academy, and Shaughnessy
Elementary) to address neighbourhood issues related to
school traffic and implement strategies and
transportation demand management (TDM) measures to
mitigate congestion during the drop-off and pick-up
periods at the schools. An ongoing commitment to off-set
start time for primary school grades to avoid concurrent
start times with nearby schools. This condition is
expected to continue, with reassessment and
coordination of start times to eliminate overlap of peak
pick-up and drop-off times.
Note to Applicant: Start times for York House School and
Little Flower Academy primary students should be offset
a minimum of 10 minutes at start of day and 15 minutes
at end of day. This should be coordinated as part of the
inter school Traffic Management Committee.
(iii) Continue to monitor and manage pick-up and drop-off
activity around the school.
Note to Applicant: If the continued reliance on parent
and staff volunteers becomes problematic, future options
to manage pick-up and drop-off activity will include the
provision of professional traffic control personnel.
(iv) Provision of free cycling education and training for all
staff and students on an ongoing annual basis.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 34
(v) Provide a limited Transportation Management Plan (TMP)
update post-occupancy outlining the following:
a. Travel mode survey for the entire school (students
and staff) with a minimum 90% response rate to be
completed annually for the three years post-
occupancy.
b. Current and future TDM measures being
implemented at the school. Provide an update as
to the success of implementing subsidized bus
passes and the number of students and staff
utilizing this TDM measure.
c. Outline whether the school is meeting the
previously set travel mode targets and to set new
targets for the future.
d. Include any neighbourhood concerns regarding the
school traffic.
e. Submit a copy of the limited TMP to the School
Liaison at the City of Vancouver for review.
f. Designate a TMP administrator at the school that
will be responsible for conducting the mode
surveys, dealing with traffic concerns around the
school and implementing the TDM measures.
g. Provide an Internal Traffic Management Plan in
brochure form that is to be developed, posted and
distributed to all parents.
h. Consider possible strategies to reduce vehicle trips
and congestion around the school.
Note to Applicant: Possible strategies include
carpool strategies, free bus passes for students
and staff, shuttle buses, school buses, student
cycle training, bicycle training for the school
community and staff, walking school bus, bicycle
train, Walking Wednesdays, and Park and Walk a
Block.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 35
5. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering and the Director of Legal Services determine are
necessary for securing the low carbon energy requirements of
the development, which may include but are not limited to
agreements which:
(i) Require that all buildings within the development receive
thermal energy from a low carbon energy system through
the implementation of a development-scale low carbon
energy solution.
(ii) Require that responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of the development-scale low carbon energy
system, if applicable, be assigned to an appropriate party
prior to occupancy.
(iii) Require the developer to undertake performance
monitoring of the thermal energy system for the
development on a reporting schedule, containing
information, and prepared in a form as requested by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
Public Art
6. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please call Karen Henry, Cultural Planner, 604
673 8282, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
7. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do
all things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 36
enter into a remediation agreement for the remediation
of the site and any contaminants which have migrated
from the site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Manager of Environmental Protection, City Engineer and
Director of Legal Services, including a Section 219
covenant that there will be no occupancy of any buildings
or improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
8. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $373,360
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be
made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the
City and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The $373,360 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $186,680 towards transportation improvements to
support walking, cycling or transit in the ARKS Community
Vision area; and
(ii) $186,680 towards the provision of new childcare spaces
on Vancouver’s westside.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services
deems appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be
drawn, not only as personal covenants of the property
owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the
Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the
appropriate Land Title Office, with priority over other
such liens, charges and encumbrances affecting the
subject site as is considered advisable by the Director of
Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the
By-law and at no cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the
City including indemnities, warranties, equitable charges,
letters of credit and withholding of permits, as deemed
necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if
any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 37
may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated October 31, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 4176 Alexandra
Street (York House School)”.
C. THAT transportation management recommendations as outlined in the
Policy Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment:
4176 Alexandra Street (York House School)”, and in the Memorandum
dated January 29, 2018, entitled” CD-1 Text Amendment: 4176 Alexandra
Street (York House School) – clarification of transportation management
recommendations”, are implemented as a high priority.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02551)
COMMUNICATIONS
1. 2018 Council Meeting Schedule Revision
THAT Council approve using the following Council – Reserve meeting dates/times as
set out in the 2018 Council Meetings Schedule, for Public Hearing:
Date Time Meeting
Tuesday, April 3, 2018 6 pm Public Hearing
Tuesday, April 24, 2018 6 pm Public Hearing
Tuesday, May 22, 2018 6 pm Public Hearing
Tuesday, June 26, 2018 6 pm Public Hearing
Tuesday, July 17, 2018 6 pm Public Hearing
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2565)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 38
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grants - Winter 2017/2018 Intake
January 17, 2018
A. THAT Council approve five (5) new Community Sport Hosting Grants totalling
$30,200 as outlined in the Administrative Report dated January 17, 2018,
entitled “Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grants - Winter 2017/2018
Intake”; source of funding is the 2017/2018 Vancouver Community Sport
Hosting Grant Program Budget.
B. THAT the grant, in A above, be subject to each grant recipient agreeing to the
terms and conditions of the community sport hosting grant program as
generally outlined in the Administrative Report dated January 17, 2018,
entitled “Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grants - Winter 2017/2018
Intake”, and otherwise satisfactory to the Senior Manager, Sport Hosting, and
the City Solicitor.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A through C
above unless and until the grant agreement letter is executed and delivered by
the grant recipient.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02576)
POLICY REPORTS
1. Issues and Directions Report - Policy to Consider Rezoning for Crofton Manor
(2803 West 41st Avenue)
January 16, 2018
A. THAT Council direct staff to conduct additional planning regarding
redevelopment of Crofton Manor (2803 West 41st Avenue) as contemplated in
the Arbutus Ridge/Kerrisdale/Shaughnessy (ARKS) Community Vision, including
an enhanced public consultation process and guided by specific planning and
development principles that reflect local community planning objectives (draft
planning and development principles are contained in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “Issues and Directions Report - Policy
to Consider Rezoning for Crofton Manor - 2803 West 41st Avenue).
B. THAT following enhanced consultation and planning work for the
redevelopment of Crofton Manor (2803 West 41st Avenue), staff report the
planning outcomes to Council that would inform consideration of an application
to rezone the site and to amend the existing CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 39
C. THAT the staff resources and the estimated cost-recovery budget of $530,000
outlined in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled
“Issues and Directions Report - Policy to Consider Rezoning for Crofton Manor
(2803 West 41st Avenue) be approved to complete additional planning and
rezoning work;
FURTHER THAT consistent with the City’s cost-recovery practice, Council
accept a policy phase contribution of $164,000 followed by a rezoning phase
contribution of $366,000 upon submission of a rezoning application from the
project proponent, Wall Group, to fully cover the program costs.
D. THAT passage of the above resolutions will in no way fetter Council’s discretion
in considering any rezoning application for the subject site and does not create
any legal rights for the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part
of the City; and expenditure of funds or incurred costs are at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02568)
2. CD-1 Rezoning: 400 West Georgia Street
January 16, 2018
A. THAT the application by Merrick Architecture, on behalf of Homer Street Office
Properties Inc. (Westbank Projects Corp.), to rezone 400 West Georgia Street
[PID 030 317-304; Lot A Block 55 District Lot 541 Group 1 New Westminster
District Plan EPP75095] from Downtown District (DD) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 7.00 to
17.87 to allow for the construction of a 24-storey office building with a floor
area of 34,850 sq. m (375,135 sq. ft.), be referred to a Public Hearing together
with:
(i) plans prepared by Merrick Architecture, received October 12, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
400 West Georgia Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning and
Development Services to approve, subject to conditions contained in
Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if the application is referred to a Public Hearing, the application to
amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for the CD-1, generally as set
out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning: 400 West Georgia Street”, be referred to the same Public Hearing;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 40
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the new CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law
be amended to establish regulations for the new CD-1 in accordance with
Schedule A, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 400 West Georgia Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the
new CD-1 By-law.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Parking By-law be
amended to include this CD-1 and to provide parking regulations generally as
set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 400 West Georgia Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Parking By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02569)
3. CD-1 Text Amendment: 1529 West Pender Street
January 16, 2018
A. THAT the application by Francl Architecture, on behalf of BCIMC Realty
Corporation (Quadreal Property Group), to amend the text of CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District (312) By-law No. 7200, to allow
conversion to office use of 684 sq. m of vacant retail store space in an existing
building located at 1529 West Pender Street [PID:024-333-387; Lot 1 Block 42

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 41
District Lot 185 and of the Public Harbour of Burrard Inlet Group 1 New
Westminster District Plan LMP39928], be referred to a Public Hearing, together
with:
(i) draft by-law amendments generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated January 16, 2016, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment:
1529 West Pender Street”; and
(ii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02570)
4. CD-1 Rezoning: 431-455 West King Edward Avenue
January 16, 2018
A. THAT the application by Integra Architecture Inc., on behalf of 1022003 B.C.
Ltd., the registered owner, and CIBT Education to rezone 431-455 West King
Edward Avenue [Lots 13 to 15, Block 661, District Lot 526, Plan 2913; PIDs:
013-343-700, 013-343-742, and 013-343-769 respectively] from RS 1 (One
Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.01 FSR and the height from
10.7 m (35 ft.) to 14.6 m (48 ft.) to permit the development of a four storey
residential building containing a total of 42 secured market rental housing
units, be referred to a Public Hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by Integra Architecture Inc., received on July 14, 2016;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 42
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
431-455 West King Edward Avenue”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 431-455 West King
Edward Avenue”, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle this rezoning and
the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 431-455 West King
Edward Avenue”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing
Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property owner(s) and their
mortgagee(s) prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated in the
above-noted report.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 431-455 West King Edward
Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02571)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 43
5. CD-1 Rezoning: 5679 Main Street (189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695 Main
Street)
January 16, 2018
A. THAT the application by Mallen Gowing Berzins Architecture Inc., on behalf of
Rendition (E41) Developments Inc., the registered owner, to rezone 5679 Main
Street [Lots 12 to 15, Except, (A) Part in Plan 4447, (B) The West 6 Feet Now
Lane; and Lot 16, Except, (A) Part in Plan 4447, (B) The West 6 Feet Now Lane,
(C) Part in Reference Plan 5645 Now Road; all of Block L, West Part of District
Lots 639 and 640, Plan 1393; PIDs: PID 014-070-910, 014-070-928, 014-071-037,
014-071-061 and 014-071-754, respectively] from C 2 (Commercial) District to
CD 1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio
(FSR) from 2.50 to 3.50 and the building height from 13.8 m (45 ft.) to 23.0 (75
ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey mixed-use building with 46
secured market rental housing units, be referred to a Public Hearing, together
with:
(i) plans prepared by Mallen Gowing Berzins Architecture Inc., received on
September 29, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
5679 Main Street (189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695 Main
Street)”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle this rezoning and
the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 5679 Main Street
(189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695 Main Street)”; the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for
enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the
property owner(s) and their mortgagee(s), but prior to enactment of the CD-1
By-law contemplated in the above-noted report, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Community Services.
C. THAT, if the application is referred to a Public Hearing, the application to
amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this CD-1, generally as set
out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning: 5679 Main Street (189-193 East 41st Avenue and 5679-5695 Main
Street)”; be referred to the same Public Hearing;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 44
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the Public Hearing.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 5679 Main Street (189-193 East 41st
Avenue and 5679-5695 Main Street)”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02572)
6. CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation: 6 West 17th Avenue (Turner Dairy)
January 16, 2018
A. THAT the application by ASIR Studio on behalf of Durabilt Holdings Ltd., the
registered owner, to rezone 6 West 17th Avenue [Lots 12 and 13, Block 524,
District Lot 526, Plan 2354; PIDs: 014-202-387 and 014-202-425 respectively]
from RS-7 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.75 to 1.56 FSR to permit
the conversion, rehabilitation and protection of the existing dairy building, the
hanging roof truss of the stables building and infill residential development
containing a total of 13 dwelling units, be referred to a Public Hearing,
together with:
(i) plans prepared by ASIR Studio, received on April 19, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning and
Heritage Designation: 6 West 17th Avenue (Turner Dairy)”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 45
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services will be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT subject to the approval in principle of the rezoning, the existing building
known as the Turner Dairy (the “heritage building”) at 6 West 17th Avenue
[Lots 12 and 13, Block 524, District Lot 526, Plan 2354; PIDs: 014-202-387 and
014-202-425 respectively] be added to the Vancouver Heritage Register in the
‘C’ evaluation category.
C. THAT, if the application to rezone set out in A above is referred to a Public
Hearing, the heritage designation of the heritage building’s exterior and the
interior hanging roof truss system at 6 West 17th Avenue [Lots 12 and 13, Block
524, District Lot 526, Plan 2354; PIDs: 014-202-387 and 014-202-425
respectively] as protected heritage property be referred to the same Public
Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the Heritage Designation By-law generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated January 16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage
Designation: 6 West 17th Avenue (Turner Dairy)”, for consideration at the
Public Hearing.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated January
16, 2018, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation: 6 West 17th
Avenue (Turner Dairy)”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
E. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and the expenditures of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the costs;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling the requirements imposed as a condition
of rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 46
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02573)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 3:50 pm and reconvened at 4:15 pm.
* * * * *
BY-LAWS
Councillors Bremner and De Genova advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the
meeting related to by-law 11, and would be voting on the enactment.
Councillors Ball and Jang advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the meeting related
to by-law 12, and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 13 inclusive, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote)
1. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (470-486 West 58th Avenue)
(By-law No. 12024)
2. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (469-485 West 59th Avenue)
(By-law No. 12025)
3. A By-Law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to create a new district
schedule and rezone designated areas from RS-1 to RM-9BN, or from RS-1 to RM-10N in
accordance with the amended Joyce-Collingwood Station Precinct Plan
Subsequent to voting on the by-laws, it was determined that by-law 3 was incomplete and
would need to be considered again at the Regular Council meeting following the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on January 31, 2018.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 47
4. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Parking requirements
(RM-10 and RM-10N District Schedule) (By-law No. 12027)
5. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct Plan)
(By-law No. 12028)
6. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (RM-10 and RM-10N District Schedule)
(By-law No. 12029)
7. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 regarding RT-5 and RT 5N Districts
Schedule and the amended RT-6 District Schedule (By-law No. 12030)
8. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Districts Parking
Requirements (467-495 West King Edward Avenue) (By-law No. 12031)
9. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (467-495 West King Edward Avenue)
(By-law No. 12032)
10. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (210-262 West King Edward Avenue)
(By-law No. 12033)
11. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 (809 West 23rd Avenue)
(By-law No. 12034)
(Mayor Robertson ineligible for the vote)
12. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (2425 West
5th Avenue – Tunstall Residence) (By-law No. 12035)
13. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 regarding an increase in the
payment-in-lieu charge (By-law No. 12036)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development – 467–495 West King Edward Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 467 – 495
West King Edward Avenue be approved generally as illustrated in the Development
Application Number DE419969, prepared by Andrew Emmerson of GBL Architects Inc.,
and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 48
August 23, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and
approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the development
character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Approval of Form of Development – 4066 Macdonald Street
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 4066 Macdonald
Street and 2785 Alamein Avenue (4066 Macdonald Street being the application
address) be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2017-00103, prepared by Cam Halkier of Shape Architecture, and stamped
“Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on July 24, 2017,
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design
changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of the
site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Approval of Form of Development – 210 East 5th Avenue (Formerly 2106-2138 Main
Street)
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 210 East 5th
Avenue be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2017-00532, prepared by Adrian Wong of Proscenium Architecture + Interiors Inc.,
and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on
December 1, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and
approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the development
character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 49
4. Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct Plan Sub-Area Amendments and Proposed Six
Storey District Schedule
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the document entitled “RM-10 and RM-10N Guidelines” be approved by Council
for use by applicants and staff for development applications in the relevant districts,
and that the amendments to the document entitled “Strata Title Policies for RS, RT
and RM Zones”, as considered by Council at the public hearing on December 6, 2017,
be approved by Council for use by applicants and staff for development applications in
the relevant districts; and
THAT Council resolves to allow the expansion of Live-Work as a use outside the DD,
DEOD, HA-1/1A and HA-2 Districts in the Zoning and Development By-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
B. Motions on Notice
1. Open Government Policy
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
WHEREAS
1. The public has an increasing interest in greater transparency in government
and the City of Vancouver has been at the forefront of efforts to increase
access to information;
2. Over the past nine years the City of Vancouver has passed a number of policies
and new initiatives to create greater access by residents to government
including:
• establishing the gold standard for open data policies in Canada;
• requiring proactive quarterly line item disclosure of expenses for
elected officials;
• increasing physical access through events such as Doors Open and Pop
Up City Hall;
• vastly increasing online access through mechanisms such as the
VanConnect app and talk Vancouver;
• significantly expanding the number of advisory committees and the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 50
number of people on advisory committees; and
• successfully advocating for robust campaign finance rules and
advocating to the provincial government for a municipal lobbyist
registry.
3. Many strategies such as Engaged City and the Digital Strategy have established
principles for transparency and accountability and access and inclusion to civic
information and processes;
4. Best practices in open government suggest residents should have access to a
single unified Open Government Policy that clearly articulates the principles,
expected outcomes, and activities being undertaken to achieve these
outcomes.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT staff be directed to compile a unified Open
Government Policy for Vancouver that aggregates the existing principles, expected
outcomes, and activities related to existing open government initiatives at the City of
Vancouver.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02552)
2. Change to Business Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing Panels of
February 15 and May 22, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver City Council, on November 28, 2017, appointed Councillor
De Genova to the Business Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing as a
Panel member, for a hearing to be held on February 15, 2018;
2. Vancouver City Council, on November 28, 2017, appointed Councillor Affleck to
the Business Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing as a Panel member,
for a hearing to be held on May 22, 2018;
3. Due to personal reasons Councillor De Genova is no longer able to attend the
hearing on February 15, 2018. Councillor Affleck has agreed to replace
Councillor De Genova at the Business Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal
Hearing on February 15, 2018, as a Panel member.
4. Councillor De Genova has agreed to replace Councillor Affleck at the Business
Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Panel on May 22, 2018.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 51
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Councillor Affleck be appointed to the Panel for the
Business Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing to be held on February 15, 2018,
in place of Councillor De Genova;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT Councillor De Genova be appointed to the Panel for
the Business Licence/Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing to be held on May 22, 2018,
in place of Councillor Affleck.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02553)
3. Accelerating the City of Vancouver Pedestrian Curb Ramp Program
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. Increasing the walkability and accessibility of Vancouver’s streets and
sidewalks is a priority for the City of Vancouver and Vancouver City Council and
central to the City’s active transportation objectives;
2. The City of Vancouver values all members of our diverse communities and is
committed to removing barriers that might prevent citizens and visitors alike
from fully enjoying our city;
3. The City of Vancouver has long recognized the importance of sidewalk
accessibility and has been installing over 200 curb ramps per year on street
corners since the 1960s to create easier sidewalk access for people, including
persons with disabilities, persons who use mobility aids, and persons with
strollers and shopping trolleys;
4. As noted in the City’s 2018 Budget, the City of Vancouver Pedestrian Curb
Ramp Program has seen an increase in the demand for curb ramps as the City
endeavors to complete the sidewalk network for seamless travel throughout
the pedestrian environment;
5. As noted in the City’s 2018 Budget, there are approximately 6,000 locations
throughout the City that still require curb ramps, with requests from residents
for ramps at approximately 600 of these locations;
6. Improving city-wide accessibility is an ongoing priority for Vancouver City
Council that benefits everyone in the community.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 52
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council allocate any and all surplus funds from the 2017
City of Vancouver operating budget to the City’s Pedestrian Curb Ramp
Program in order to accelerate the installation of curb ramps at the
approximately 6,000 locations throughout the City where they are still
required, thereby accelerating the completion of a seamless network for
sidewalk travel throughout the city’s pedestrian environment.
B. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to present to Council, at the earliest
possible opportunity, an estimated cost to install curb ramps at all of the
approximately 6,000 locations throughout the City where they are still
required.
C. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to report back to Council within 60
days with recommendations for potential sources of any additional funding that
could be leveraged to accelerate and complete the installation of curb ramps
at all of the approximately 6,000 locations throughout the City where they are
still required, including – but not limited to – potential funding that may be
available from the Federal and Provincial governments, from non-profit
foundations, and from other corporate and community partners who may have
the ability and the inclination to contribute financially toward the goal of
achieving a seamless network of accessible sidewalk travel throughout the
city’s pedestrian environment.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the motion entitled “Accelerating the City of Vancouver Pedestrian Curb Ramp
Program”, be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on February 21, 2018, to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02577)
4. Fast-Tracking City-Led Zero-Emission Demonstration Building Projects
The motion below contains changes to the original Motion on Notice which were accepted by
Council.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
WHEREAS
1. As part of the June 23, 2017, report to Vancouver City Council on the Greenest

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 53
City Action Plan (GCAP), staff stated that we have only reduced our city’s
greenhouse gases (GhGs) by 15 percent and will not reach our GhG reduction
target of 33 percent below 2007 levels by 2020;
2. Reports indicate that 2017 will likely be a record high year for global GhG
emissions, which means that to meet the commitments made at the global
climate conference in Paris in 2016, every jurisdiction including Vancouver
must redouble its efforts to reduce GhGs;
3. Vancouver’s Renewable City Strategy includes increasing the supply of
renewable energy within the city;
4. Vancouver’s Zero Emissions Building Plan calls for City-led building projects
that demonstrate zero emission building approaches as a means to both reduce
GhGs and educate and inspire others within the city to pursue zero emission
building projects.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT City Council direct staff to report back to Council
within three months on a short list of City-led zero emission building projects that are
currently underway and can be started within this year, possibly including projects
with the Park Board and School Board;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT staff explore and report back on the design and
financial implications of these projects to incorporate production of zero emission
renewable energy, such as solar panels, and educational components on the reductions
in greenhouse gases (GhGs).
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02554)
5. Keeping Promises: Approving and Expediting One Building of 100% Core-Need
Rental Housing in the Downtown Eastside
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
WHEREAS
1. In 2008, Mayor Gregor Robertson made a promise to end homelessness in
Vancouver by 2015;
2. The 2015 Homeless Count reported 1746 homeless people in Vancouver and the
most current numbers in 2017 reported 2138 people as homeless in the city of
Vancouver;
3. Approval of a rezoning application or use of City owned land for housing
requires a majority vote of Vancouver City Council;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 54
4. In minutes of meetings held by Council since August 2, 2016, there is no motion
by the Mayor or any other member of Council promising one building of housing
at 100% core-need rates in the Downtown Eastside.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to find one or more sites of City owned land in the
Downtown Eastside appropriate for development of a 10-12 storey building with
100% of units to be rented at core-need rates and report back with
recommendations to Council at the March 14, 2018, meeting of the City
Finance and Services Committee.
B. THAT Council direct staff to explore funding options, including but not limited
to: appropriate budget surpluses, the innovation fund, funding allocated for
the Mayor’s office in the 2018 budget, unallocated Development Cost Levies
and unallocated Community Amenity Contributions.
C. THAT Council direct Planning and Development Services to expedite and
prioritize any permits or inspections necessary to move this project forward.
D. THAT Council endorse a community liaison committee to meet with staff and
that Mayor Robertson be appointed by Council as the liaison to this committee.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the motion entitled “Keeping Promises: Approving and Expediting One Building
of 100% Core Need Rental Housing in the Downtown Eastside”, be referred to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on February 21, 2018,
to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02579)
NOTICE OF MOTION
1. Lane Activation and Animation
Councillor Louie submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be
placed on the February 20, 2018, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
2. Call for Bold Provincial Actions to Tackle Vancouver’s Housing Affordability
Councillor Carr submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be
placed on the February 20, 2018, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 55
NEW BUSINESS
1. Confirming a Non-Motorized Boating Facility as a Priority
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver City Council will debate the Northeast False Creek Plan starting
January 31, 2018. The Northeast False Creek Plan includes an optimal area to
build a non-motorized boating facility;
2. Vancouver City Council has passed motions expressing support for a permanent
facility in 2001, 2002, 2006, 2009, 2011, and 2014. The Vancouver Park Board
passed a motion on July 8, 2013, supporting a permanent paddling facility in
False Creek;
3. Canoe, kayak, dragon boat and outrigger programs operating from the
Creekside Community Center boating area have grown by over 10% per year,
which has increased the need for a facility in False Creek;
4. The 2018 ‘On Water’ Vancouver’s Waterway Recreation Strategy will determine
non-motorized facility uses, needs and opportunities by engaging with
Musquem, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations, the boating community,
disability groups, the Community Centre Associations, regulatory bodies and
the general public;
5. The creation of a non-motorized boating facility will address community needs,
gaps, and concerns with an opportunity to connect with the long history of
non-motorized boating while respecting and honouring the traditional unceded
land and waters of the local First Nations, known now as the Northeast False
Creek Area.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council reaffirms their support of
the development of a non-motorized boating facility to serve to the benefit of the
community and confirming a non-motorized boating facility should be included as a
priority for the Northeast False Creek Area;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council keep the Vancouver Park Board
fully informed of all City of Vancouver initiatives that are of consequence to the
Vancouver Park Board and the paddling community in False Creek.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02555)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 56
2. Naming of West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza
* * * * *
Under Section 9.9 of the Procedure By-law, Council agreed to rescind part “J” in a motion
approved at the Regular Council meeting on November 28, 2017, regarding the Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza, for the purpose of including
Ms. Gutteridge’s first name, Helena, in the naming of the plaza.
* * * * *
RESCISSION MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT part “J” in the motion approved by Council at the Regular Council meeting on
November 28, 2017, regarding the Naming of West End Lanes and New Temporary City
Hall Plaza, be rescinded.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02580)
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
WHEREAS
1. On November 28, 2017, Vancouver City Council passed a motion that the new
temporary plaza at City Hall, located on the site previously occupied by the
East Wing of City Hall, be named “Gutteridge Plaza”;
2. The purpose of this naming was to ensure Helena Gutteridge, the first woman
elected to Vancouver City Council, was appropriately commemorated on the
grounds of City Hall;
3. The intention has been to have the launch of the new plaza as part of the
City’s International Women’s Day celebrations and in discussions around the
planning for the plaza it became clear that it is important to have Helena
Gutteridge’s full name in order for the significance of her achievement and
contribution to be fully visible;
4. While there are emergency response issues with using two names for streets,
these same barriers do not exist for naming plazas.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the temporary plaza at City Hall, located on the site
previously occupied by the East Wing of City Hall, be named “Helena Gutteridge
Plaza”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02581)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 57
3. Recognizing Indigenous People Appropriately in City Documents
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. On February 26, 2013, Council endorsed the United Nations Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UN-DRIP);
2. On January 22, 2018, the Urban Aboriginal Peoples’ Advisory Committee
recommended that Council change the name of the Committee to the Urban
Indigenous Peoples’ Advisory Committee to recognize the language used in the
UN-DRIP;
3. The Urban Aboriginal Peoples’ Advisory Committee further recommended that
Council direct staff to replace the word “Aboriginal” with “Indigenous” in City
documents and publications, and advise related bodies such as the Vancouver
Park Board, Vancouver Public Library, and Vancouver Police Department of the
change and the reasons for it;
4. Increasingly Indigenous organizations are moving away from the term
“aboriginal” for a variety of reasons and moving towards the term indigenous.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the name of the Urban Aboriginal Peoples’ Advisory
Committee be changed to Urban Indigenous Peoples’ Advisory Committee;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to use the word “Indigenous”
instead of “Aboriginal” in City documents and publications moving forward, and advise
related bodies such as the Vancouver Park Board, Vancouver Public Library, and
Vancouver Police Department of the change and the reasons for it.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02582)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Robson Plaza
Councillor De Genova requested an update regarding recent activities that occurred at Robson
Plaza where the Vancouver Police Department became involved. She enquired how these
activities could be avoided in the future and how Robson Plaza could become a family friendly
plaza. The City Manager provided a response.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 58
2. Swimming at False Creek
Councillor De Genova enquired about the status of a past motion regarding making False
Creek swimmable by 2018. The City Manager agreed to send the most recent information
available on this matter.
3. Ticketing for Marijuana Dispensary Contraventions
Councillor De Genova requested metrics on whether the percentage of tickets the City is
giving for Marijuana Dispensary Contraventions are rising or staying the same. She also
requested information on the number of City staff dedicated to this matter. The City Manager
agreed to provide that information.
4. Unfortunate Incident on Granville Street
Councillor De Genova requested the City Manager provide an update on steps being taken by
the City after the recent unfortunate incident on Granville Street. The City Manager agreed
to provide the information.
5. Seniors’ Advisory Committee Report on Social Isolation and Loneliness Among
Seniors
Councillor Stevenson, along with Councillor Ball, both liaisons to the Seniors’ Advisory
Committee, noted that Council had received the Seniors’ Advisory Committee report on Social
Isolation and Loneliness Among Seniors (SILAS), and requested the City Manager provide a
response to the recommendations in the report. Councillor Stevenson noted that he and
Councillor Ball would be bringing this issue to Council in the near future. The City Manager
agreed to provide a response.
6. LGBTQ2+ Subcommittee Recommendations
Councillor Stevenson, Liaison to the LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee, noted the Committee had
recently approved and circulated recommendations to Council and staff, and requested the
City Manager provide a response to the recommendations. The City Manager agreed to
provide a response.
7. Review of Motion B.5
Councillor Reimer requested the City Manager review motion B.5, “Keeping Promises:
Approving and Expediting One Building of 100% Core-Need Rental Housing in the Downtown
Eastside”, before it is debated at the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities on
February 21, 2018, to ensure it does not compromise the Public Hearing regarding the
Rezoning of 58 West Hastings Street. The City Manager agreed to provide a response.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 30, 2018 59
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 5:14 pm.
* * * * *