SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
SIGN BY-LAW APPEAL HEARING
JANUARY 23, 2018
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
January 23, 2018, at 6:00 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose
of considering an applicant request for reconsideration of the decision of the Director of
Planning in refusing to issue a Sign Permit.
PRESENT: Acting Mayor Raymond Louie
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor De Genova (Leave of Absence)
Councillor Jang
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Acting Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
Grant Murray, Legal Services, provided an overview of the process whereby Council was to
consider an application for reconsideration of a sign permit related decision made by the
Director of Planning. Mr. Murray reviewed the sections of the Vancouver Charter and Sign
By-law which govern Council’s new role in this regard. He noted that Council may decide to
either uphold, overturn or vary the decision of the Director of Planning, and that it should
provide the reasons for its decision.
1. Applicant Request for Council Reconsideration of Refused Sign Permit
SI-2017-00273, 813 Burrard Street
Applicant Opening Comments
Ryan Matthews, Priority Permits, provided a presentation on the proposed sign at
813 Burrard Street. Mr. Matthews stated several reasons the proposed sign is appropriate
including that it is aesthetically appropriate, provides wayfinding for customers and increases
visibility for eastbound vehicle and pedestrian traffic.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, January 23, 2018 2
Staff Comments
Kristen Elkow, Planner (Sign By-Law), Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided an
overview of the Policy report dated January 2, 2018, entitled “Applicant Request for Council
Reconsideration of Refused Sign Permit SI-2017-000273, 813 Burrard Street”. Ms. Elkow
reviewed the process and considerations for unnecessary hardship for this application and the
rationale for the refusal of the sign permit which led to the request for reconsideration
before Council.
Council Questions
Mr. Matthews, Ms. Elkow, Sadhu Johnston, City Manager, and Mr. Murray all responded to
questions regarding placement and size of the sign, wayfinding, clarification and definition of
unnecessary hardship as defined in the Sign By-law and lane activation.
Council Decision
MOVED by Acting Mayor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT Council uphold the decision by the Director of Planning to refuse to issue
Sign Permit SI-2017-00273, 813 Burrard Street, because the proposed sign does not
comply with the Sign By-law or the requirements for a relaxation for unnecessary
hardship.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02544)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Special Council adjourned at 6:43 pm.
* * * * *