PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JANUARY 16 AND 18, 2018
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, January 16, 2018, at 6:07 pm,
in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the Public Hearing recessed and
reconvened on Thursday, January 18, 2018, at 6:04 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Leave of Absence – Medical Leave)
Councillor Kerry Jang (Leave of Absence)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Maria Castro, Meeting Coordinator
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, the Mayor in the Chair,
to consider proposed amendments to the zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor
Robertson opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 2
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the order of the agenda be varied to consider Item 2 following the completion
of Items 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6, in that order;
FURTHER THAT Items 7 and 8 be referred to the reconvened Public Hearing on
Thursday, January 18, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
1. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 2425 West 5th Avenue (Tunstall House)
An application by Alexandre Ravkov, Architect, was considered as follows:
Summary: To add the existing building at 2425 West 5th Avenue (Tunstall Residence)
to the Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category, and to
designate the exterior of the existing building as protected heritage
property.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was scheduled for public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 1 piece of correspondence in support of the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:16 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 3
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council add the existing building at 2425 West 5th Avenue
[PID: 014-973-227; Lot 13, Block 241, District Lot 526, Plan 1058 (the “site”)],
known as the Tunstall Residence (the “heritage building”) to the Vancouver
Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment pursuant to Section 593 and Section 594 of the Vancouver Charter a
by-law to designate the exterior of the heritage building as protected heritage
property.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is
at the risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02514)
3. TEXT AMENDMENT: 1128 West Georgia Street
An application by James KM Cheng Architects Inc., was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the text of CD-1 (426) Comprehensive Development District for
the existing Shangri-La mixed-use development to add a “tea house”
adjacent the hotel lobby, and to enclose the restaurant’s bridge
connection/terrace on the third floor and the conference room’s patio on
the sixth floor.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 4
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:19 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the application by James KM Cheng Architects Inc., on behalf of KBK
No. 11 Ventures Ltd., to amend CD-1 (426) By-law No. 8943 for
1128 West Georgia Street (1119 Alberni Street) [PID: 027-700-291, Air Space
Parcel 3, Block 18, District Lot 185, Group 1, New Westminster District, Air
Space Parcel Plan BCP38696; and PID: 017-483-093, Lot G, Block 18,
District Lot 185, Group 1, New Westminster District, Plan LMP1597 Except Air
Space Parcel Plan BCP38696] to increase the floor space ratio from 13.41 to
13.50 to allow for expansion of uses accessory to the hotel presently on the
site, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by James KM Cheng Architects Inc., on
behalf of KBK No. 11 Ventures Ltd., as the applicant, and stamped
“Received Planning & Development Services (Rezoning Centre)
March 21, 2017”, provided that the Director of Planning may allow
minor alterations to this form of development when approving the
detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to ensure a minimum distance between the
guard rail of the elevator shaft opening and the new tea room
structure of no less than 3.7 m (12 ft.).
2. Design development to improve the integration of the covered
terrace on level six with the existing building.
Note to Applicant: Provide annotation on Development Permit
elevation drawings to show materials are of high-quality
construction and match existing architectural elements.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 5
3. Provision in the drawings of section details of the proposed
covered bridge demonstrating a minimal impact on the access to
daylight and views in the ground-level Public Open Space and Art
Space.
4. Design development to visually conceal back-of-house and staff
operations for the proposed tea room from the entrance lobby
and other public and semi-public spaces.
5. Consideration to provide architectural devices and high
performance glazing to improve the thermal performance and
heat gain of the proposed glazed restaurant terrace enclosure.
Engineering
6. The proposed encroaching canopy edge along the Alberni Street
frontage is to meet the Vancouver Building By-law for
demountability and drainage where it is over public property or
the canopy must be pulled back so no portion encroaches over
public property.
Sustainability
7. Identification on the plans and elevations of the built elements
contributing to the building’s sustainability performance in
achieving LEED® Gold, as required by the Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings, including a minimum of 63 points in the LEED®
rating system, including at least 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, one water efficiency point, and
one stormwater point.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 6
Sustainability, the General Manager of Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as necessary,
and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Environmental Contamination
1. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the
Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 7
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02516)
4. REZONING: 8378-8432 Oak Street
An application by Bold Properties (Oak St.) LP, was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 8378-8432 Oak Street from RT-2 (Two-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit development of a six-
storey residential building, with a total of 38 residential units, over two
levels of underground parking. A height of 22.1 m (73 ft.) and a floor space
ratio (FSR) of 2.50 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 3 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 8
The following expressed concerns related to aspects of the application:
Guy Pottinger
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:23 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing comments.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by Bold Properties (Oak St.) LP, on behalf of Bold
Properties (Oak St.) Nominee Inc., the registered owner, to rezone
8378-8432 Oak Street [Lots F, H, I and J, all Except the West 7 Feet and the
East 10 Feet, Now Highways, and Lot G, Except the East 10 Feet and the
West 7 Feet, Now Highways, all of Lot 32, Block B, District Lots 319, 323 and
324, Plan 2010; PIDs 014-110-016, 008-407-177, 014-110-032, 014-110-067, and
008-762-350 respectively] from RT-2 (Two-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio
(FSR) from 0.75 to 2.50 FSR and the height from 9.2 m (30 ft.) to 22.1 m (73 ft.)
to permit the development of a six-storey residential building containing a
total of 38 market residential units, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
8378-8432 Oak Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Gateway Architecture Inc., on behalf
of Bold Properties (Oak St.) Nominee Inc., and stamped “Received
Planning & Development Services (Rezoning Centre), April 28, 2017”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application of by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to relocate the amenity space to the south
east corner of the site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 9
Note to Applicant: The driveway is to be relocated further north
to provide the amenity space at the south east corner. This will
improve solar access and outlook for the amenity room and
associated outdoor space, as well as providing an improved
interface with the public realm at the midblock pedestrian
connection.
2. Design development to the landscaping of the site edges to
ensure a pedestrian-friendly interface, at the street, lane and
mid-block pedestrian connection.
Note to Applicant: Explore opportunities to improve unit entry
identification and provide additional landscaping nodes at the
site edges at the pedestrian level, noting there will be some
reduction in the extent of private patios.
3. Provide high quality and durable exterior finishes consistent with
the rezoning application.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to maintain the proposed quality
in all aspects, including but not limited to appearance,
durability, and performance.
4. The proposed unit mix, including 30 two-bedroom units (79%)
and 8 three-bedroom units (21%), is to be included in the
Development Permit Drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning of Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.
5. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building is encouraged in the application for a development
permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 10
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
7. Design development to the integration of the architecture,
grades, retaining walls, walkways and structural elements, such
as underground parking, to provide maximum plant growing
depth (exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard).
Note to Applicant: Variations in the slab may be required in
combination with appropriate growing medium. In the horizontal
plane, soils should be contiguous, wherever possible. To
accommodate trees in planters near property lines, the
underground parking to angle downward at the corner
(1 m across and 1.2 m downward).
8. Design development to increase the amount of rooftop planting
and presence of vegetation by adding extensive green roofs,
larger planters in combination with small species tree canopy.
9. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
hose bibs for all patios and common areas greater than 100 sq.
ft.
10. Design development to locate site utilities and vents onto
private property and integrated discreetly into the building,
avoiding landscaped and common areas.
Note to Applicant: this includes the exploration of opportunities
to screen the pad mounted transformer at the lane with a trellis
and gates. Further coordination with BC Hydro will be necessary.
11. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscape treatment.
Note to Applicant: Plant material should be clearly illustrated on
the Landscape Plan and keyed to a standard Plant List. The
Landscape Plan should include all exterior hard and soft surface
elements (site furniture, gates, fences, surfaces, screens, walls),
the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or
proposed street trees, adjoining landscaping/ grades and public
utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire hydrants.
12. Provision of a large scale Tree Plan to be attached to the
Landscape Plan submission.
Note to Applicant: This can be done by attaching a printed large
scale version of the tree management plan (by ACL) to the
Landscape Plan drawings.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 11
13. Illustration of any measures that support integrated rainwater
management, including absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and
detention technology.
Note to Applicant: This is not a performance requirement. The
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan (I.R.M.P) is an emerging
policy that supports rain water management on development
sites. Provide a brief written rationale to describe the approach
to rainwater management.
14. Provision of a vegetative surface area calculation overlay plan.
Note to Applicant: The plan should differentiate between
extensive and intensive green roof types and provide a
percentage ratio of soft and hard surface cover proposed.
15. Provision of large scale, dimensioned, landscape sections
[typical] through planted areas.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree stem, canopy and root ball including the slab-
patio-planter relationship, the lane interface, common areas and
upper patios.
16. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
individual hose bibs for all private patios of 100 sq. ft.
(9.29 sq. m) or larger.
Note to Applicant: provide a separate partial irrigation plan (one
sheet size only) that illustrates symbols for hose bib and stub out
locations. There should be accompanying written notes on the
same plan and/or Landscape Plan describing the intent and/or
standards of irrigation.
Sustainability
17. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing
buildings on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition
waste (excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
18. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of
63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency
and stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 12
as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
19. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 18, the
applicant may choose the meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings
(i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions
standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions
Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
20. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
21. Delete all treatments, landscaping and features shown over the
property line on the city lane.
22. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from
the location shown without reliance of the lane for extended bin
storage. If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.
23. Clearly show the Oak Street statutory right-of-way (SRW) line
and dimension, and the mid-block pedestrian connection SRW
line and dimension on the drawings.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 13
24. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
25. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent the site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
26. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
27. Provision of an updated plan showing the access route from the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm
the use of the parking ramp, if required.
28. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Confirmation that the security gates that include doors
will function as a full 20 ft. wide gates when opened
otherwise alternative door systems must be employed to
ensure 20 ft. wide manoeuvering aisles are available
when security gate is operated.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, throughout the parking levels
and at all entrances. The slope must not exceed 12.5%
after the first 20 ft. from the property line. 15% slopes
may be acceptable if a 7.5% to 10% transition ramp is
provided at the bottom for at least 4 m in length.
(iii) Provision of updated section drawing showing elevations,
vertical clearances, and security gates for the main ramp
and the parking levels.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 14
Note to Applicant: label the minimum clearance for
parking levels on drawing, including overhead gate and
mechanical projections. Minimum 2.3 m clearance is
required for Class A loading and disability spaces.
(iv) Dimension all stall widths, and column encroachment
widths.
(v) Provision of additional stall width for visitor stall 5 next
to the overhead gate.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots F, H, I and J, all Except the West 7 Feet
and the East 10 Feet, Now Highways, and Lot G, Except the
East 10 Feet and the West 7 Feet, Now Highways, all of Lot 32,
Block B, District Lots 319, 323 and 324, Plan 2010 to create a
single parcel.
2. Provision of building setback and a surface statutory right-of-way
(SRW) to achieve a 4.5 m distance from the back of the City curb
to the building face. A legal survey of the existing dimension
from the back of the City curb to the existing property line is
required to determine the final setback/SRW dimension. The
SRW will be free of any encumbrance such as structure, stairs,
door swing, benches, landscape and bicycle parking at grade but
the encroaching building portions shown below grade will be
accommodated within the SRW agreement.
3. Provision of a 12 ft. wide surface statutory right-of-way (SRW)
adjacent the south property line of the site for public pedestrian
purposes. The treatments within the SRW are to be designed to
the satisfaction of the Director of Planning in consultation with
the General Manager of Engineering Services. The below grade
parkade will be accommodated within the SRW agreement.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-
site works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of
the site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 15
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued
until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of sewer system upgrade to adequately serve
the site. Separate and upgrade the existing combined
sewer on Oak Street from the existing manhole fronting
8420 Oak Street to the separated manhole south of 70th
Avenue (approximately 205 m). The sewer upgrading
costs borne by this project may be reduced should
benefiting nearby development proceed concurrently
with this project with the said reduction to be
determined at the sole discretion of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
a. Retain or infiltration the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
b. Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite; and
c. Maintain the pre-development 5 year storm event
rate. The predevelopment estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post development
estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 16
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work. Note: as-
constructed documentation will be required that includes
photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
(v) Upgrading the existing pedestrian signal to a full signal at
the intersection of Oak Street and 67th Avenue. This will
include signal modifications such as: an accessible
pedestrian signal, an Uninterrupted Power Supply unit,
improved intersection LED lighting, electrical kiosks,
power sources, pole and base replacements as needed to
provide for the signal upgrade. The signal upgrading costs
borne by this project may be reduced should benefiting
nearby development proceed concurrently with this
project with the said reduction to be determined at the
sole discretion of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
(vi) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
(vii) Provision of a 2.44 m (8 ft.) CIP light broom finish
sidewalk with saw cut joints and a minimum 1.83 m
(6 ft.) wide sod grass front boulevard on Oak Street.
(viii) Provision of upgraded street lighting on Oak Street to
current LED standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design
as required.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features. There will be no
reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead
electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to
the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical plant.
Please confirm that this space has been allocated and agreement
between both parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 17
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
7. Pay to the City the Community Amenity Contribution of
$1,969,888 which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment
is to be made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost
to the City and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Director of legal Services. The $1,969,888 is to be allocated as
follows:
(i) $984,944 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Marpole Community Plan area.
(ii) $886,450 (45%) toward childcare and community facilities
in and around the Marpole Community Plan area; and
(iii) $98,494 (5%) to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to
enable heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 18
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 8378-8432 Oak Street”.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and the expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02517)
5. REZONING: 1296 West Broadway
An application by IBI Group, was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1296 West Broadway from C-3A (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
16-storey mixed-use building, with 153 secured market rental housing units,
and commercial uses at grade. A height of 52 m (170.8 ft.) and a floor space
ratio (FSR) of 7.07 are proposed.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 19
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 2 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 2 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Elizabeth Payne
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:30 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT the application by IBI Group on behalf of 1061511 B.C. Ltd (Jameson
Development Corp.) to rezone 1296 West Broadway [Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 353,
District Lot 526, Plan 590; PIDS: 015-185-303, 015-185-311 and 015-185-320
respectively] from C-3A (Commercial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 3.00 to 7.07
and the maximum building height to 52 m (170.8 ft.), measured from a
geodetic elevation of 99.24 m (325.58 ft.) to permit the development of a
16-storey mixed-use building containing commercial and retail uses and
153 for-profit rental housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A
of the Policy Report dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1296 West Broadway”, be approved subject to the following conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 20
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by IBI Group. and stamped “Received
City Planning Department, January 5, 2017”, subject to the following
conditions, provided that the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, who shall
have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce apparent building bulk by
providing a more differentiated expression to the exterior.
Note to Applicant: As a corner site with a prominent location,
design development to the exterior expression is required to
enhance verticality or otherwise reduce perceived building bulk.
Consider employing differing colours, textures and/or patterns of
brick cladding.
2. Design development to maintain the brick cladding to the height
and extent as indicated in the application.
3. Design development to more clearly identify the residential and
office entries on Birch Street.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved through distinctive
material, lighting, signage and/or canopy treatments.
4. Design development to improve livability by revising window
locations with respect to room layouts such that windows are
located more centrally in rooms, particularly for deeper units.
5. Design development to significantly reduce the footprint of the
rooftop mechanical enclosure.
6. Provision of a 0.5 m setback along the Birch Street frontage to
achieve a sidewalk width of 4.5 m, as measured from curb to
building face; and a sidewalk width of 5.5m on West Broadway.
Note to applicant: dimensions are required on the Site Plan
indicating compliance with public realm requirements.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 21
7. Design development to maintain and ensure future usability of
the expanded public realm at the northwest corner of the site.
Note to Applicant: Avoid elevators or vestibules adjacent to this
expanded exterior area at the development permit stage. This
space should be maintained to have a relationship to the indoor
space into the future such as outdoor seating for a café.
8. Design development to provide an indoor amenity space that is
directly adjacent to the outdoor Children's play area, to
facilitate direct movement between the two spaces as well as
allowing visual surveillance.
9. Design development to improve the lane treatment through
increased soft landscaping and reduced hardscape where
achievable.
10. That the proposed unit mix for family units, 27% two-bedroom
units and 10% three-bedroom units be included in the
Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or the Development Permit Board provided
that it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed
to be suitable for families with children.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
11. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Sustainability
12. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 22
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Landscape Design
13. Design development to provide additional green surface cover to
the roof areas.
Note to Applicant: this can be done by dedicating more amenity
deck area to planters and trees canopy cover, respecting the
programmatic needs for outdoor active space. The upper roof
has been reserved for future solar panel installation; however,
consider augmenting solar panel space with whole or partial
extensive green roof cover to mitigate rain water volumes and
heat island effect.
14. Design development to the integration of the architecture,
grades, retaining walls, walkways and structural elements, such
as underground parking, to provide maximum plant growing
depth (exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard).
Note to Applicant: Variations in the slab may be required in
combination with appropriate growing medium. In the horizontal
plane, soils should be contiguous, wherever possible. To
accommodate trees in planters near property lines, the
underground parking to angle downward at the corner
(1 m across and 1.2 m downward). Further comments may apply
at the development permit stage.
15. Design development to locate site utilities and vents
onto private property and integrated discreetly into the building,
avoiding landscaped and common areas.
Note to Applicant: this includes the exploration of opportunities
to screen the pad mounted transformer at the lane with a trellis
and gates. Further coordination with BC Hydro will be necessary.
16. Incorporation of the principles of the City of Vancouver,
Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for the protection, enhancement
and creation of bird habitat and to reduce potential threats to
birds in the City.
Note to Applicant: Refer to:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntB.pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntC.pdf

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 23
17. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft
and hard landscape treatment;
Note to Applicant: Plant material should be clearly
illustrated on the Landscape Plan and keyed to a standard
Plant List. The landscape plan should include all exterior
hard and soft surface elements (site furniture, gates,
fences, surfaces, screens, walls), the public realm
treatment (to the curb) and all existing or proposed
street trees, adjoining landscaping/grades and public
utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire hydrants.
(ii) Provision of a vegetative surface area calculation overlay
plan;
Note to Applicant: The plan should differentiate between
extensive and intensive green roof types and provide a
percentage ratio of soft and hard surface cover proposed.
(iii) Illustration of details for any measures that support
integrated rainwater management, including absorbent
landscapes, soil volumes and detention technology;
Note to Applicant: This is not a performance requirement
buy should be coordinated with the LEED credit
scorecard. The Integrated Rainwater Management Plan
(I.R.M.P) is an emerging policy that supports rain water
management on development sites. Provide a brief
written rationale to describe the approach to rainwater
management. Rainwater treatment chains are
encouraged.
(iv) Provision of large scale, dimensioned, landscape sections
[typical] through planted areas;
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the
planter materials, tree stem, canopy and root ball
including the slab-patio-planter relationship, the lane
interface, common areas and upper patios.
(v) Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas
and individual hose bibs for all urban agriculture zones;
Note to Applicant: Provide a separate partial irrigation
plan (one sheet size only) that illustrates symbols for
hose bib and stub out locations. There should be

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 24
accompanying written notes on the same plan and/or
landscape plan describing the intent and/or standards of
irrigation.
Engineering
18. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
19. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment
By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details
20. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
21. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from
the location shown without reliance of the lane for extended bin
storage If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.
22. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over
public property. Note canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the
drip line is achieving maximum weather protection for the
sidewalk users.
23. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the street
improvements sought for this rezoning and add the following
statement to the landscape plan:

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 25
The landscape plan is to be noted as “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION”
and is to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a
minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any construction
proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site
Inspector for details.”
24. Dimension the 5.5 m distance from back of curb to building face
on Broadway and 4.5 m distance from back of curb to building
face on Birch Street. clearly showing the setbacks on the site are
free and clear of obstructions.
25. Provision of generous and continuous rain protection for
pedestrians along the sidewalk on Broadway. Provision of a
separate application to the General Manager of Engineering
Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over public
property. Note: canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the buildings internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the
drip line is achieving maximum weather protection for the
sidewalk users.
26. Provision of revised building grades to reflect the new curb on
Broadway and curb bulge design.
27. Provision of current standard of soil volumes for planting of
street trees.
28. Provision of an improved plan showing the required Class B
bicycle spaces on private property.
Note to Applicant: Locate the bike rack in close proximity to the
lobby and commercial entrances with ‘stairs free’ access. Ensure
that bicycles locked to the rack do not encroach into the 4.5 m
setback on Birch Street.
29. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
30. Provision of ‘stairs free’ loading access to the office, retail and
residential uses and note on plans.
31. Clearly show all entries for the retail spaces and provide
corresponding building and design grades for each entry.
32. Confirm if a man door is required for the O/H gate on P3 and if
so, note on plans.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 26
33. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provide gridlines on the parking and loading levels.
(ii) Dimension all stalls. Provide additional parking stall width
for stalls adjacent to walls or stalls with columns set back
more than 4 ft. from the end of the stall and note on
plans.
(iii) Provision minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp,
security gates, and loading bays.
Note to applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical
clearance is required for access and maneuvering to all
disability spaces. Provide a section drawing along the E-W
maneuvering aisle that extends under the ‘dog wash
room’. Provide a section drawing of the ramp, from the
lane to the P1 level showing the minimum vertical
clearance. 3.8 m of vertical clearance is required for
Class B loading spaces and maneuvering, and 4.3 m of
vertical clearance is required for Class C loading spaces
and maneuvering. Provide a section drawing for each
loading space.
(iv) Provision of column placement to comply with the
requirements of the Engineering Parking and Loading
Design Supplement.
Note to Applicant: No columns are shown within the
parking levels. A column 0.6 m (2 ft.) in length must be
set back 0.6 m (2 ft.) from either the opening to or the
end of the parking space. A column 0.9 m (3 ft.) long may
be set back 0.3 m (1 ft.). Provide a minimum 0.3 m (1 ft.)
setback from the drive aisle for all columns. If columns or
structure for the O/H door is required within the loading
area, ensure that they are located outside of the loading
space and the required maneuvering.
34. Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking ramp
at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, within the
parking levels and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: Using the design elevations shown, the ramp
slopes would be steeper than indicated on the drawings and does
not meet the requirements of the Parking and Loading Design
Supplement. The slope and crossfall within the loading and

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 27
parking areas must not exceed 5%. The elevation of 138.3 ft. on
P2 looks incorrect.
35. Modification of the parking ramp design to address the following:
(i) The slope must not exceed 10% for the first 20 ft. from
the property line as 10% is shown for 13 ft.
(ii) The slope must not exceed 12.5% after the first 20 ft.
from the property line. 15% slopes may be acceptable if a
7.5% to 10% transition ramp is provided at the bottom for
at least 4 m in length. The 15% slope indicated calculates
to 22% and no transition ramp is shown.
(iii) The slope and crossfall must not exceed 5% within the
parking areas. Using the design elevations shown on P1,
the slope calculates to 11%.
(iv) Provide increased ramp width at the top of the parking
ramp, through the curved section to enable two vehicles
to pass unobstructed. Consider providing a larger radius
or chamfer on the inside radius of the ramp to achieve a
ramp width of 23’-6”.
36. Modification to the loading bay design to address the following:
(i) Provision of an improved plan showing any columns or
structure within the loading area, any required O/H
doors, a loading corridor, the north and south property
lines and the location of all poles within the lane.
(ii) Provision of improved maneuvering diagram specifying
the routing of the Class C trucks from the arterial streets
to and from the loading space. As the loading spaces are
angled west, confirmation is required that trucks can turn
in from Alder Street and exit out onto Birch Street.
Identify all geometric changes to curb returns and pole
relocations that are required, especially to address the
2 poles at Alder Street at the lane south of Broadway.
(iii) Provision of Class C maneuvering to occur within the
lane, without having to cross over the sidewalk on Birch
Street. The maneuvering shown on page 24 of the
rezoning drawings is not supported as the Class C truck
would be required to stop on the sidewalk and back into
the Class C loading space. Consider relocating the Class C
space to the most easterly loading space to eliminate this
conflict.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 28
37. Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the
Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm
the use of the parking ramp, if required.
Note to PC: Confirm if parking calculations are correct as section
4.1.7 of the PBL should be used for office and retail parking
requirements. If so, one level can be eliminated.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the General Manager of
Community Services, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of
the owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 353, DL 526, Plan 590 to
create a single parcel.
2. Release of Easement and Indemnity Agreement 499005M
(commercial crossings) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-
site works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of
the site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued
until the security for the services is provided.
(i) Delete the sunshades projecting over the lane from the
Level 2 windows shown on pages 16, 34 and 35; or make
arrangements (legal agreements) to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services and the
Director of Legal Services for these features encroaching
onto City property. Note: an application to the City
Surveyor is required.
(ii) Confirmation that any relocated wood poles in the lane
adjacent the site will not impact existing lane lighting,

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 29
should any relocated pole include lighting impacts,
upgrading of the lane lighting to current standard will be
required.
(iii) Provision of new CIP light broom finish concrete sidewalk
with saw cut joints on Broadway and on Birch Street that
meet current standards.
(iv) Provision of upgraded street lighting on Broadway and
Birch Street adjacent the site to current standards
including a review of the existing lighting to determine its
adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(v) Provision of a standard concrete commercial lane crossing
at the lane south of Broadway on the east side of Birch
Street.
(vi) Provision of new curb and gutter along the Broadway
frontage of the site.
(vii) Removal of the existing driveway crossings on Broadway
and Birch Street and replacement with standard curb and
gutter and sidewalk.
(viii) Upgrading of the pedestrian signal at Birch Street and
Broadway to an accessible pedestrian signal including
upgraded LED lighting at the four corners.
(ix) Provision of a curb bulge in the south west corner of Birch
Street at Broadway. Work to include all utility relocations
necessary to achieve construction of the bulge.
(x) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
(xi) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(xii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 30
application lacks the details to determine if sewer main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including floor area, projected fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer to determine if
sewer system upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any sewer system upgrading that may be required.
(xiii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
(a) Retain or infiltrate 50% of the 6-month storm
event volume (24 mm) onsite;
(b) Treat the 6-month event (48 mm) onsite; and
(c) Maintain the pre-development 2-year storm event
rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post development
estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
Note: Legal arrangements may be required to ensure
ongoing operations of certain stormwater storage, rain
water management and green infrastructure systems.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad-mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from
the existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-
way. Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground
utility network to accommodate this development will require
approval by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 31
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
5. Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks
are to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to
meet City needs in a configuration acceptable by the General
Manager of Engineering Services and in conformance with
applicable electrical codes and regulations. A detailed design
will be required prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note: as-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths.
Housing
6. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement and Section 219 Covenant securing all
residential units as market rental housing units for the longer of
60 years and life of the building, subject to the following
additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant.
(ii) A no stratification covenant.
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time.
(iv) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Section 219 Covenant and a Housing Agreement to be entered
into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of
the Vancouver Charter.
Sustainability
7. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability
and the Director of Legal Services, that requires the future
owner of the building to report energy use data, on an
aggregated basis, for the building as a whole and certain
common areas and building systems. Such an agreement will
further provide for the hiring of a qualified service provider to
assist the building owner for a minimum of three years in
collecting and submitting energy use data to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 32
Public Art
8. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to applicant: Please call Karen Henry, Public Art Planner
(604-673-8282), to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
9. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as covenants
pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as are considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-law.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 33
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, and letters of credit, and
provide for the withholding of permits, as deemed appropriate by, and
in the form and content satisfactory to, the Director of Legal Services.
B. THAT the application to amend Schedule A of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1296 West Broadway”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1296 West Broadway”.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02518)
6. REZONING: 6679-6695 Main Street (191 East 51st Avenue)
An application by SKA Properties Inc., was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 6679-6695 Main Street (191 East 51st Avenue) from
C-2 (Commercial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
permit the development of a six-storey mixed-use building with 28 secured
market rental housing units. A floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.55 and height of
22.3 m (73 ft.) are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 34
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:35 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by SKA Properties Inc., on behalf of HWP
6679 Main Street Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 6679-6695 Main Street
(191 East 51st Avenue) [PID 008-957-452; Lot A, Block 3, District Lot 651, Plan
21490] from C-2 (Commercial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.50 to 3.55 and the
building height from 13.8 m (45 ft.) to 22.3 m (73 ft.) to permit the
development of a six-storey mixed-use building with 28 secured market rental
housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6679-6695 Main Street
(191 East 51st Avenue)”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by F. Adab Architects Inc. on behalf of
SKA Properties Inc., and labeled “Received April 26, 2017 Rezoning –
PDS”, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 35
Urban Design
1. Design development to provide an indoor amenity room for the
use by building residents.
Note to Applicant: Indoor amenity should be approximately
45 sq. m and located adjacent to outdoor amenity with visual
and physical connections. This may be located at the ground
level in the southwest corner in place of the townhouse unit and
include children’s play equipment. See also conditions 14 and
37.
2. Design of below grade parking structures to be provided at
adequate depths below grade to ensure the planting of trees and
mature landscape may be successfully executed.
Note to Applicant: See also Landscape condition 17.
3. Design development of roof top outdoor amenity area to provide
a minimum of 25% of the roof area as intensive green roof.
Note to Applicant: If rooftop access is to be excluded from the
calculation of height, rooftop urban agriculture space must be
provided in accordance with the Urban Agriculture Design
Guidelines for the Private Realm and Roof-mounted Energy
Technologies and Green Roofs - Discretionary Height Increases
Bulletin. Children’s play equipment may be considered at the
upper roof level.
4. Design development to improve the layout and function of
private outdoor space, including the removal of enclosed
balconies.
Note to Applicant: Minimum balcony dimensions should be 1.8 m
(6 ft.) deep with a minimum area of 15.25 sq. m (50 sq. ft.).
Extending the balconies on the east façade into the 0.6 m
setback may be considered based on the layout and function of
the balconies and architectural expression.
5. Design development to improve the livability, function and
horizontal access to daylight for dwelling units with balcony
enclosures.
Note to Applicant: Balcony enclosures, if provided, are not
eligible for exclusion from floor area calculations (i.e. they will
be counted toward the net FSR) and must meet the performance
objectives of Balcony Enclosure Guidelines and the
Administrative Bulletin for Balcony Enclosure for New Buildings
including for layout, location, and appearance.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 36
6. Provision of a vertical vent space to accommodate future
exhaust from the commercial level.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to allow for a wider range of
uses, including restaurants, without requiring the retrofitting of
exhaust ducting on the outside of the building.
7. Provision of adequate storage for each unit.
Note to Applicant: Storage is required for each unit, whether in
the unit or below grade, as anticipated in the Bulk Storage and
In-Suite Storage - Multiple Family Residential Development
Bulletin.
8. At time of development permit, provision of:
(i) Detailed section drawings with notes and dimensions
including planter and soil depths, balcony railing design,
weather protection, roof top overhead structures and
other indicative exterior details.
(ii) High quality durable materials that maintain the level of
exterior detailing and finish necessary to accomplish the
intended expression of the building in this application.
Note to Applicant: Synthetic or acrylic stuccos are not
considered high-quality materials.
(iii) Design to ensure that mechanical units and service
equipment including any anticipated cell antennas,
mechanical screening structures and parkade exhaust
ventilation do not compromise the integrity of the
architectural expression.
9. The proposed unit mix, including 2 studio units (7%),
13 one-bedroom units (46%), 9 two-bedroom units (32%), and
4 three-bedroom units (14%), is to be included in the
Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.
10. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building in the application for a development permit.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 37
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
11. Identify on the drawings strategies that consider the principles
of CPTED including the following conditions:
(i) Limiting opportunities for nuisance activities, mischief in
alcoves, and blind corners;
(ii) Limiting unobserved access or activity and encouraging
natural visual surveillance;
(iii) Mail theft;
(iv) Site lighting developed with considerations for safety and
security; and
(v) Reduced opportunities for graffiti;
Note to Applicant: Alcoves and other similar visually hidden
areas should be designed so as to not be covered or have limited
cover and be well lit. Opportunities for graffiti can be mitigated
by reducing areas of exposed wall and by covering with vines,
hedges or a rough finish material.
12. Design development to improve visibility and security in the
underground parking in accordance with the Parking By-law
including:
(i) Overhead lighting and step lights at exit stairs and doors;
(ii) 24-hour lights and walls painted white; and
(iii) Visibility at doors, lobbies, stairs and other access routes.
Landscape Design
13. Design developments to provide higher quality landscape plans
at all levels. Landscaping should be visible from the street, use
larger, more significant planting to soften the edges, and use
woody evergreen plants for a year-round presence.
14. Design development to expand programming to include a
children’s play area, complete with adequate seating
opportunities for adult supervision.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 38
Note to Applicant: A children’s play area should be located in
two areas: one smaller space should be located on the ground
level adjacent to the indoor amenity space referenced in
condition 1, with visual access, and another, larger space on the
rooftop, for better solar access.
15. Design development to grades, retaining walls, walkways and
structural design, to ensure that neighbouring grades are met
and that outside private spaces are respected. This should be
confirmed in at least three east-west sections, from the building
face to the west neighbouring property. The section should be of
sufficient scale to detail fences, walls, walkways, stairs and
other landscape elements.
16. Design development to the location of utilities.
Note to Applicant: Avoid the awkward placement of utilities (pad
mounted transformers, “Vista” junctions, underground venting)
visible to the public realm. Where utilities must be located near
a street or sidewalk, a secondary circulation route is the
preferred location. Every effort should be made to integrate
utility access into structures and behind lockable, decorative
gates or screen with landscaping. No trenching for utility hook-
ups shall take place inside tree protection zones.
17. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters on all levels to ensure long-term
viability of the landscape, to be confirmed by dimensioned
details.
Note to Applicant: Growing mediums and planting depths should
exceed BCSLA standards.
18. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design.
19. A full landscape plan for the proposed landscape is to be
submitted. The landscape plan should illustrate the proposed
plant materials (with common botanical names, plant sizes and
quantities), paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading
and other landscape features. Plant material should be listed in
a plant list that is clearly keyed to the landscape plan. The
landscape plan should be a minimum of 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
20. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/2” = 1 ft. scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and other features.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 39
21. Sections (1/4” = 1 ft. or 1:50) illustrating the building to public
realm interface along the street, confirming a delineated private
to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences
and planters.
22. New proposed street trees should be coordinated with
Engineering and the Park Board and noted “Final species,
quantity and spacing to the approval of the City Engineer and
Park Board”. Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of
Engineering Streets Division regarding street tree spacing and
quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board
regarding tree species.
23. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for
all planters.
24. A landscape lighting plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings. All existing light poles should be shown.
Sustainability
25. Confirm that the building is on track to meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 40
26. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 25, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e.
Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Building are summarized at:
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
27. Delete special sidewalk treatments shown on the Main Street and
51st Avenue frontages and show standard broom finished
sidewalk.
28. Provision of any gas service is to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way.
29. Provision of construction details to determine the ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
30. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
31. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from the
location shown without reliance of the lane for extended bin
storage. If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 41
32. Provision of a separate application to the General Manager of
Engineering Services for any canopy/awning encroaching over
public property. Note canopies are to be fully demountable and
drained to the building’s internal drainage systems and should
consider the final sidewalk location and widths such that the drip
line is achieving maximum weather protection for the sidewalk
users.
33. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for this application. Please provide a copy
of the updated landscape plan to Engineering for review.
34. The following statement is to be placed on the landscape plans:
“The landscape plan is to be noted as ‘NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION’
and is to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a
minimum of eight weeks prior to the start of any construction
proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive ‘For Construction’ approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering Building Site
Inspector for details.”
35. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of all parking stalls to be numbered, labelled
and dimensioned.
(ii) Confirmation that a security gate on P1 separating the
commercial parking and the residential parking is
required and clearly show the gate(s) on the drawings.
(iii) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp, through
the loading bay and the P1 parking level.
Note to Applicant: Label minimum clearance for parking
levels on drawings, including at overhead gate and
mechanical projections.
(iv) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay,
throughout the parking levels at all sloped sections and at
all entrances.
Note to Applicant: The lengths of the sloped sections is to
be shown on the submitted drawings.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 42
36. Modification of the parking ramp design as follows:
(i) The slope must not exceed 12.5% after the first 20 ft.
from the property line. 15% slopes may be acceptable if a
7.5% to 10% transition ramp is provided at the bottom for
at least 4 m in length.
(ii) Ramps which have a 15% slope and are exposed to the
weather must be heated.
(iii) Design development to reduce vehicle conflicts on the
ramps with widths less than 20 ft.
Note to Applicant: A review of the design by a qualified
Transportation Consultant is required.
(iv) All maneuver aisles, columns, and column setbacks to be
dimensioned on the drawings.
(v) Provision of a double loading bay throat for the Class B
loading space.
(vi) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
(vii) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s).
Housing
37. The development is to comply with the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a kitchenette and
accessible washroom in the indoor common amenity room.
Note to Applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas
should be adjacent to one another and have direct visual and
physical connection between them.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 43
Engineering Services
1. Release of Easement and Indemnity Agreement 402301M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
2. Provision of building setback and surface statutory right-of-way
(SRW) to achieve a 4.5 m distance from the back of the City curb
to the building face. A legal survey of the existing dimension
from the back of the City curb to the existing property line is
required to determine the final setback and SRW dimension.
Where required, the SRW agreement will accommodate the
underground parking levels P1-P3, a projection at the roof level,
and, potentially, small portions of balconies.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-
site works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of
the site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights-of-way for the services
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued
until the security for services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current
application lacks the details to determine if sewer main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including floor area, projected fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer to determine if
sewer system upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 44
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any sewer system upgrading that may be required.
(iii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
a. Retain or infiltrate 50% of the six-month storm
event volume (24 mm) onsite.
b. Treat the six-month event (48 mm) onsite.
c. Maintain the pre-development two-year storm
event rate. The pre-development estimate shall
utilized the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post-
development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required
to ensure on-going operations of certain stormwater
storage, rainwater management and green infrastructure
systems.
(iv) Provision of upgraded street lighting on the site frontage
to current standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(v) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations, and depths.
(vi) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing including
upgraded curb returns and ramps on the north side of
51st Avenue at the lane west of Main Street.
(vii) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 45
(viii) Provision of new concrete sidewalk on 51st Avenue a
minimum of 1.8 m in width adjacent the site.
(ix) Where extensive damage of the existing sidewalk on Main
Street fronting the development site may occur during
the course of construction, the site is to replace the
existing sidewalk with current sidewalk standards
including saw cut control joints. The determination to
replace the sidewalk is to be at the sole discretion of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
(x) Provision of countdown timers and LED intersection
lighting (all four corners) for the signal located at
51st Avenue and Main Street.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad
mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro
kiosks) are to be located on private property with no reliance on
public property for placement of these features. In addition
there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing
overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network
to accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement and/or Section 219 Covenant securing
all 28 residential units as rental housing for 60 years or the life
of the building, whichever is greater, and subject to the
following additional conditions in respect of those units:
(i) That such units may not be subdivided by deposit of a
strata plan.
(ii) That none of such units may be separately sold.
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 46
(iv) On other such terms and conditions as the General
Manager of Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City at by-law enactment
pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter and/or a
Section 219 Covenant.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 47
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing
Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6679-6695 Main Street
(191 East 51st Avenue)”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the
Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property owner(s)
and their mortgagee(s) prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated
above.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for
this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6679-6695 Main Street
(191 East 51st Avenue)”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6679-6695 Main Street
(191 East 51st Avenue)”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02519)

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 48
2. REZONING: 58 West Hastings Street
An application by Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency (VAHA), Vancouver Chinatown
Foundation (prospective leaseholder) on behalf of the City of Vancouver (property owner) and
Vancouver Coastal Health (prospective healthcare operator), was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 58 West Hastings Street from DD (Downtown District) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
10-storey mixed-use building with commercial and medical office uses on
floors one to three, and with 231 units of social housing above. A height of
33.21 m (108.96 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 6.40 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application.
Applicant Comments
Luke Harrison, Director/Chief Executive Officer, Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency,
Carol Lee, Vancouver Chinatown Foundation, Wing Leung, W.T. Leung Architects, and Bonnie
Wilson, Vancouver Coastal Health, provided a verbal presentation and, along with Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability staff and the City Manager, responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 17 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 21 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Penelope Tham
Shirley Chan
Queenie Choo, CEO, S.U.C.C.E.S.S.
Tony Letvinchuk

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 49
Heather McCauley
Nathan Edelson
Elizabeth Cheong
Allen Fan
Susan Chow
Dave Levy
The following spoke in opposition to the application, with many expressing concerns related
to aspects of the application including a desire that all social housing units offered for rent be
at welfare, shelter and pension rates.
Erica Grant
Vincent Tao
Harsha Walia
Carol Martin
Elaine Durocher
Joan Morelli
Theresa Gray
Robin Raweater
Aiyanas Ormond
Jean Swanson
Lama Mugabo
Laural Gaudette
Loretta Brown
Kimberly Larson
Kris Maley
Harold Lavender
Erica Grant
Tingchun Chen
Jannie Leung
Katelyn Siggelkow
Laurel McBride
Karen Ward
Marina Classen
Emily Luba
Flora Munroe
Jack Gates
Stacey Ho
Simon Schwitzer
Madeleine Andrews
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 50
Council Decision
At 10:03 pm on January 16, 2018, during the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the meeting be extended to finish hearing from speakers, and refer discussion
and decision on Item 2 to the next Regular Council meeting on Tuesday,
January 30, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
reconsidered
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion be amended as follows:
THAT discussion and decision on Item 2 be referred to the reconvened
Public Hearing on Thursday, January 18, 2018.
LOST (Vote No. 02520)
(Councillors Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)
The amendment having lost, the main motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 02522), with
Councillors Affleck, Bremner and De Genova opposed.
* * * * *
Council agreed to reconsider the main motion as moved by Councillor Reimer, as unanimous
consent of all Council members present is required in order to extend the meeting past
10:00 pm, per Section 2.3 (e) of the Procedure By-law.
* * * * *
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT Council reconsider the main motion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02523)
Subsequent to Council’s decision to reconsider this matter, it was

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 51
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the meeting be extended to finish hearing from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02524)
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT discussion and decision be referred to the Regular Council meeting on Tuesday,
January 30, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02525)
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner and De Genova opposed)
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:49 pm.
* * * * *
On January 16, 2018, Council recessed at 10:52 pm and reconvened on January 18, 2018, at
6:04 pm, to deal with Item 7 followed by Item 8.
* * * * *
7. REZONING: 1500 West Georgia Street
An application by Francl Architecture, was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1500 West Georgia Street from Downtown DD (Downtown District)
to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit a new 43-storey
mixed-use development to the east of the existing office building (the
“Crown Life Place”). The proposed new tower includes 220 strata residential
units, retail use at the ground floor and a height of 134.0 metres (440 feet).
The proposed floor space ratio (FSR) is 10.82 over the entire site.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 52
Applicant Comments
Colin Bosa, Bosa Properties Inc., provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 19 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 24 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Stephen Regan
Robert Groulx
Devon Hussack
Rebecca Hartley
James Smith
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Michael McCoy
Ann Robson
Bill Yuen
Roger Tsang
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:13 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Peter Joyce, Bunt and Associates, responded to questions.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and Engineering Services staff, responded to
questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 53
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Francl Architecture in conjunction with Büro Ole
Scheeren, on behalf of Bosa Properties (1500 Holdco) Inc., to rezone 1500 West
Georgia Street [Amended Lots 7 (see 42783L) and 8 (see 42783L), and Lots 9
and 10, all of Block 43, District Lot 185, Plan 92; PIDs 015-738-663, 015-738-
680, 015-738-701 and 015-738-710 respectively], from DD (Downtown District)
to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to increase the permitted floor
space ratio (FSR) from 6.00 to 10.82 and the building height from 91.4 m to
134.0 m to permit the development of a 43-storey tower containing 220 market
strata residential units while retaining the existing office building on the site,
be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Francl Architecture in conjunction
with Büro Ole Scheeren, and stamped “Received Planning &
Development Services, Feb. 14, 2017”, provided that the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce view impacts to nearby
residential and office buildings, particularly views to the North
Shore Mountains.
Note to Applicant: Ensure the east-west dimension of the
primary mass of the tower remains below the maximum
permitted dimension of 21.9 m (72 ft.). Additional narrowing or
shaping of the principal building mass may be required. Apparent
building mass can be reduced by maintaining a high degree of
translucency of the balcony side-frames. Terrace spaces on the
roofs of cantilevered forms on the south side of the building
should either not be accessible or should have significantly
reduced accessible area to minimize view impacts by limiting the
extent of guards, landscaping/trees, or furniture that would
further obstruct nearby views. Notation and dimensions on the
plans is required to indicate the extent of accessible roof.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 54
2. Design development to avoid building mass, including balconies,
that overhangs or projects into the public realm at any level.
Note to Applicant: The public realm is defined as 5.5 m from the
back of the curb on Georgia Street, 5.5 m from the back of the
curb on Nicola Street, and 7.6m from the back of the curb on
Alberni Street as per the letter of response to rezoning enquiry.
This condition may result in a loss of density.
3. Design development to further reduce the average floorplate of
the tower for floors above a height of 18.3 m (60 ft.) to satisfy
the floorplate size objective of 603.9 sq. m (6,500 sq. ft.) as set
out in the West End Plan.
Note to Applicant: The intent of the floorplate control is to limit
building bulk in order to preserve views and maintain access to
light to public areas. The average floorplate of floors higher than
18.3 m (60 ft.) as per the floor plate data provided in the
February 14, 2017 submission booklet exceeds 6,500 sq. ft.
Provide the floorplate information in spreadsheet format.
4. Design development to maximize the amount of pedestrian
activation of the residential tower by orienting entrances, public
uses to face fronting streets.
Note to Applicant: Design development is required to reduce the
amount of blank wall facing Georgia Street, Nicola Street, and
Alberni Street and to introduce active uses on streets and to
increase the visibility of the café to pedestrians. The
arrangement of spaces at grade may have to be significantly
revised to satisfy this condition. Updated elevation drawings
should clearly differentiate areas of glazing, areas of screened
glazing and areas of opaque wall via additional notation and
coloured renderings.
5. Design development to provide a private outdoor space (balcony)
for every residential unit.
6. Design development to comply with the Horizontal Angle of
Daylight provision of the CD-1 By-law.
Note to Applicant: Habitable rooms in the northeast units on
levels 5 through 8 require access to daylight.
7. Design development to provide an exterior Children’s Play area.
8. Design development to provide an accessible outdoor amenity
space for use by residents.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 55
Note to Applicant: The outdoor amenity space should be
colocated with an indoor amenity space.
9. Design development to further refine and architecturally
integrate the rooftop mechanical penthouse, elevator override
service volumes, telecom equipment, other service equipment
including window washing infrastructure to minimize any
incursion into the skyline or Council-approved view corridors.
Note to Applicant: The Level 42 floor plan does not indicate
space to accommodate rooftop mechanical or service
equipment. The design of the rooftop should anticipate and
incorporate all required equipment at this stage. Complete and
coordinated tower elevations and a tower roof plan should be
provided at a scale of 1:100. Clearly indicate the dimensions and
height of any rooftop mechanical penthouse, elevator override
service volumes, and other service equipment.
10. Design development to maintain the high quality materials
indicated for the residential tower and the hardscape of the
public plaza, and to maintain the level of detailing implied and
necessary to accomplish and construct the proposed design
aesthetic.
11. The reconstruction of the plaza and its reflecting pool, including
the waterfall feature along Georgia Street, is to be respectful of
the original design concept, geometry and key proportions of its
main features, to the highest degree possible. The reconstructed
plaza should not only retain its character-defining attributes
associated with the existing office building (the “Crown Life
Place”) but also provide a visual continuity linkage with the
proposed tower to the east. Current materials and finishes
should be reused wherever feasible.
Note to Applicant: Selection of materials and finishes, even
where new materials are adopted, to be carefully conducted for
compatibility with the original design concept and the plaza’s
envisioned relationship with the historic building, as well as for
compatibility as observed from Georgia Street viewpoints.
12. Submission of a bird friendly strategy for the design of the
building and landscape is encouraged in the application for a
development permit.
Note to Applicant: Strategy should identify any particular risks
with regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose
design features or to reduce these risks. For more information,
see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 56
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
13. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings.
Sustainability
14. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of
63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency
and stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost
as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
Landscape
15. Design development to improve the plaza circulation and
usability by increasing the deck area at the ‘pinch point’ by the
café and at the south edge of the basin.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by relocating the café,
or by further retracting the east basin edge. Also, retracting a
portion of the south edge of the basin, would further improve
the water to paving proportion and enhance passive seating
areas with sunny orientation;

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 57
16. Design development to demonstrate viability into the future of
the trees inside the water basin concept, or provide alternate,
more conventional concept that would ensure maintenance and
health of the trees can be achieved.
Note to Applicant: Further development at the detail level is
needed to ensure viability. While the aesthetic and whimsical
character of this concept is supported, the constructability,
installation and ultimate maintenance of this detail is unusual
and has long term implications, which need to be confirmed at
this stage.
17. Design development to provide usable and accessible outdoor
common spaces on outdoor terraces, with expanded
programming for spaces that promote social interaction, such as
children’s play, urban agriculture and other passive activities, to
be co-located with visual access from amenity areas.
Note to Applicant: Common access and universal access to
outdoor areas should be confirmed. Green roof areas should be
included and should differentiate between extensive and
intensive green roofs.
18. Design development to improve sustainability and expand
programming to include edible plants, in addition to urban
agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided
with amenities such as, raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
19. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted.
Note to Applicant: The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant sizes
and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site
grading and other landscape features. Plant material should be
listed in a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan.
The Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
20. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including planters
on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details must confirm depth of
proposed planting on structures is deep enough to accommodate
rootballs of proposed trees well into the future.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 58
21. Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to public
realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated
private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences
and planters. The location of the underground parking slab
should be included in the section.
22. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen lane
edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a manner which
minimizes their impact on the architectural expression and the
project’s open space and public realm.
23. Trellis and vines to be provided over the underground garage
access ramp.
24. New proposed street trees should be noted “Final species,
quantity and spacing to the approval of City Engineer and Park
Board”. Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering
Streets Division regarding street tree spacing and quantity.
Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board regarding
tree species.
25. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for
all planters on parkade slab and minimum of hose bibs to be
provided for landscape on grade;
26. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
Engineering
27. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 59
28. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
29. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
30. Design development to comply with the Parking and Loading
Design Supplement to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services (GMES).
(i) Provision of all parking stalls to be numbered, labelled
and dimensioned.
(ii) Modify the Class B loading bay design as required.
(iii) Provide loading bay throats for manoeuvering.
(iv) Provide additional loading bay width for the second and
subsequent loading spaces (each additional space must be
3.8 m wide)
(v) Design development to provide two way accesses at the
parkade entrance off of Nicola Street.
Note to Applicant: this is to accommodate future
potential vehicle flow changes on Cardero Street that
could impact access to the site, and to reduce vehicle
conflicts between the main parkade ramp and the Class B
loading.
(vi) Design development to improve loading access to the
residential and office elevators.
(vii) Loading access to be stair free, independent of drive
aisles and loading bays are to be conveniently located
adjacent to the elevators for the intended use.
(viii) Design development to reduce the width of the driveway
crossing on Cardero Street.
(ix) Provision of a review of the parking and loading design by
a qualified Transportation consultant.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 60
Note to Applicant: This must analyse vehicle and truck
turning movements into and out of the site, the loading
bays and at all ramp sections and curves on the parking
levels.
(x) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, mechanical projections and security gates for
the parkade entries, ramps, the parking levels and
through the loading bays as required in order to verify
minimum clearance requirements are met.
Note to Applicant: Label the minimum clearance at these
key locations on the drawings.
(xi) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramps at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bays,
throughout the parking levels and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: Where there is a curved ramp, provide
grades two feet from the wall on the inside radius. The
slope and length of the ramp sections is to be shown on
the submitted drawings.
(xii) Provision of a double door bicycle elevator with an inside
compartment measuring a minimum of 2051mm width by
1683mm depth and a door width of 1067mm to allow
bicycles to enter and exit in a forward direction.
(xiii) Design development to conveniently locate end of trip
facilities near the Class A bicycle parking spaces
designated for the Office use.
(xiv) Clarify the stair free access route for the Class A bicycle
spaces located at B6, E4 on drawing A-10-007 to reach
the outside.
(xv) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle room(s).
(xvi) Provision of an alcove for bike room access off of the
vehicle maneuvering aisle.
31. Provision of all crossings to be designed to the satisfaction of
GMES. A separate crossing application to GMES is required.
32. Provision of detailed Landscape Plans at 1:100 scale reflecting
public property/public realm treatments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 61
33. Provision of an updated landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought by this rezoning, including the provision of
the following note on the landscape plan:
The landscape plan is to be noted as “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION”
and is to be submitted for review to Engineering Services a
minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any construction
proposed for public property. No work on public property may
begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering,
Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site
Inspector for details.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
34. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the
issuance of any development permit, to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
35. Design of the development must provide for Neighbourhood
Energy System (NES) compatibility and shall adhere to the
following requirements:
(i) The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system
shall be designed to be easily connectable and
compatible with Neighbourhood Energy to supply all
heating and domestic hot water requirements. Design
provisions related to NES compatibility must be to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
(ii) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air
shall be provided by hydronic systems without electric
resistance heat or distributed heat generating equipment
(including but not limited to gas fired make-up air
heaters, heat producing fireplaces, distributed heat
pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to
be utilized for an energy transfer station connecting the
building(s) to the City-designated NES, as outlined in the
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards Design
Guidelines, at development permit.
(iv) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical
heating system at the building permit stage must be to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 62
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall refer to the
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards – Design
Guidelines for general design requirements related to NES
compatibility at the building scale. The applicant is also
encouraged to work closely with City staff during
mechanical design to ensure compatibility with a
neighbourhood-scale system. At building permit stage,
the applicant will be required to submit final detailed
drawings and a declaration signed by the registered
professional of record certifying that the Neighbourhood
Energy connectivity requirements have been satisfied.
36. In lieu of the requirements outlined in the preceding condition
(condition 53), the applicant may choose, at time of
Development Permit, to meet a greenhouse gas outcome
equivalent to connecting to a low-carbon neighbourhood energy
system. This equivalence must be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Director of Planning, and may include
achieving a 50% GHG reduction from a high-efficiency natural-
gas scenario, achieving the GHG limits of the Green Buildings
Policy for Rezonings (amended February 2017), or a Certified
Passive House.
Note to Applicant: If following the greenhouse gas outcome
equivalency option, the applicant will be required at each stage
of permit to submit energy model results, for review by
Sustainability, demonstrating that the development is on track
to achieve the above requirements and what must be submitted.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering Services, and
Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Amended Lots 7 and 8 (see 42783L) and Lots 9
and 10, all of Block 43, DL 185, Plan 92 to create a single parcel.
2. Provision of a building setback and surface statutory right of way
(SRW) for public pedestrian use over a portion of the site,
adjacent to Alberni St, to achieve a 4.5 m (14.8 ft.) offset
distance from the back of the existing curb to the building face.
A survey plan prepared by a British Columbia Land Surveyor
showing the existing dimension from the back of the City curb to
the existing property line to determine the final setback and

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 63
SRW width is required. The SRW will be free of any encumbrance
such as structure, stairs, door swing and plantings at grade and is
to accommodate the existing underground parking structure
within the SRW agreement.
3. Provision of a building setback and surface statutory right of way
(SRW) for public pedestrian use over a portion of the site,
adjacent to Georgia Street, to achieve a 7.5 m (24.6 ft.) offset
distance from the back of the existing curb to the building face
and diminishing in width in a westerly direction, generally as
indicated on the attached plan. A survey plan prepared by a
British Columbia Land Surveyor showing the existing dimension
from the back of the City curb to the existing property line to
determine the final setback and SRW width is required. The SRW
will be free of any encumbrance such as structure, added stairs,
door swing and plantings at grade and is to accommodate the
existing building, stairs and brick slope within the SRW
agreement.
4. Provision of an additional 3.0 m x 8.5 m (9.8 ft. by 27.9 ft.)
corner cut SRW on Georgia Street at Nicola Street extending
8.5 m (27.9 ft.) along Georgia Street and 3.0 m (9.8 ft.) along
Nicola Street.
5. Provision of a surface Statutory Right of Way (SRW) adjacent the
Cardero Street frontage from the property line to the existing
building face. This dimension is approximately 2.8 m (9.2 ft.).
A survey plan prepared by a British Columbia Land Surveyor
showing the existing dimension from the property line to the
existing building is required to determine the final SRW
dimension.
6. Provision of an additional corner cut surface Statutory Right of
Way (SRW) on Georgia Street at Cardero Street to match the
building face. This dimension is a triangle of approximately
1.5 m x 1.5 m (5 ft. by 5 ft.). A survey plan prepared by a British
Columbia Land Surveyor showing the existing dimension from the
property line to the existing building is required to determine
the final SRW dimension.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 64
Note to Applicant: Refer to Figure 1 below for SRW requirements of
above conditions 2 through 6.
Figure 1: SRW Requirements (for Illustrative Purposes Only - not including SRW
over the plaza)
7. Provision of a statutory Right of Way (SRW) over the plaza space
for public use. The SRW to be to the satisfaction of the Director
of Planning in consultation with the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
8. Provision of a topographic survey plan showing the existing
buildings, stairs, retaining wall etc. with the proposed sidewalk
SRW areas along Georgia Street, Nicola Street, Alberni Street
and Cardero Street overlaid for further review by City staff and
to assist in refining the various SRW dimensions and provisions.
9. Confirmation that the two existing Easement and Indemnity
Agreements – E45615 and G89806 (encroachment agreements for
landscaping, tree grates and special sidewalk treatment) are no
longer required and can be discharged from title as the
encroachments are being removed or replacement of the two
agreements with current agreement language.
10. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-
site works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of
the site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 65
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued
until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of geometric changes and street reconstruction
on Cardero Street adjacent to the site to allow for new
curb and gutter, raised protected bicycle lane, front
boulevard with street trees, CIP light broom finished
sidewalks with saw cut joints and new curb ramps where
required. Work to include appropriate transitions to the
intersection of Georgia and Cardero streets and
adjustment of all utilities and services to accommodate
the proposed geometric changes.
(ii) Provision of geometric changes and street re-construction
at the intersection of Cardero and Alberni streets to
allow for a fully protected bicycle and pedestrian friendly
intersection adjacent to the site. Work to include
adjustment of all utilities and services to accommodate
the proposed geometric changes.
Note to Applicant: The intersection upgrading costs borne
by this project may be reduced should benefiting nearby
development proceed concurrently with this project with
the said reduction to be determined at the sole discretion
of General Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provision of Triangle West sidewalk treatments on the
Cardero Street and Nicola Street frontages of the site.
(iv) Provision of geometric changes, public realm
improvements and street reconstruction on the Georgia
Street frontage of the site including changes to existing
curb and or new and added curbing. Work to include
adjustment of all existing utilities to accommodate the
required changes on Georgia Street. The geometry of
these changes will be subject to the design of the Georgia
Gateway Project.
(v) Provision of improvement to the slip resistiveness of the
existing red brick paver sidewalk along the Georgia Street
and Cardero Street frontages including all portions of the
brick walk located on public property and within the SRW
setback area.
(vi) Provision of new 3.15 m (10.3 ft.) CIP light broom finish
concrete sidewalks with saw cut joints and 1.22 m (4 ft.)
exposed aggregate front filler sidewalk adjacent to the
Alberni Street frontage of the site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 66
Note to Applicant: The new sidewalk will narrow adjacent
to the existing building.
(vii) Provision of upgraded street lighting adjacent all
frontages of the site and new pedestrian scale lighting on
Cardero Street adjacent to the site. A review of the
existing lighting is required to determine its adequacy
and upgraded lighting is to be provided where required.
(viii) Provisions of new curb returns and curb ramps at all
street intersections adjacent to the site to current
standards.
(ix) Provision of Georgia Street public realm sidewalks
treatments adjacent the Georgia Street frontage of the
site. Sidewalk treatment to be blended with the portion
of brick pavers intended to remain on public property.
(x) Upgrading/replacement of the existing traffic signal at
the intersection of Georgia and Nicola streets to
accommodate cycling facilities, LED intersection lighting
and countdown timers.
(xi) Upgrading of the signal at the intersection of Georgia and
Cardero streets including LED intersection lighting,
countdown timers and an Uninterrupted Power Supply
unit.
Note to Applicant: The traffic signal upgrading costs
borne by this project may be reduced should benefiting
nearby development proceed concurrently with this
project with the said reduction to be determined at the
sole discretion of General Manager of Engineering
Services.
(xii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by GMES and in conformance with applicable
electrical codes and regulations. A detailed design will be
required prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note: as-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the
installed number of conduits, their final locations and
depths.
(xiii) Provision of new street trees adjacent the site where
space permits.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 67
(xiv) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services (GMES) and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of any
water system upgrading that may be required.
(xv) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives;
a. Retain or infiltrate the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
b. Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite; and
c. Maintain the pre-development 5 year storm event
rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post development
estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be
required to ensure on-going operations of certain
stormwater storage, rain water management and
green infrastructure systems.
11. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from
the existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-
way. Any alterations to the existing overhead/underground
utility network to accommodate this development will require
approval by the Utilities Management Branch.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 68
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in the applicant’s
consultation with B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined
within the development footprint to accommodate such
electrical plant. Please confirm that this space has been
allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) – Cash Payments
12. Pay to the City the cash Community Amenity Contribution of
$56,938,245 (CAC Offering) which the applicant has offered to
the City and to be allocated as follows:
(i) $51,244,420 to support delivery of the West End Public
Strategy.
(ii) $5,693,825 to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to assist
with heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
13. Payment of the CAC Offering is to be made as outlined below, at
no cost to the City, and on terms and conditions and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services:
(i) $20,000,000 must be paid by bank draft, certified cheque
or wire transfer prior to the enactment of the rezoning
by-law;
(ii) $11,081,473 (30% of the balance remaining of the
outstanding CAC Offering) must be paid by bank draft,
certified cheque or wire transfer no later than 18 months
(measured in calendar days) after the rezoning
enactment, with interest accruing at prime plus 3% (per
Bank of Montreal daily prime rates) from the date when
such payment is due until the date that such amount is
paid in full; and
(iii) $25,856,772 (balance of the remaining outstanding CAC
Offering) must be paid by bank draft, certified cheque or
wire transfer on the earlier of:
a. the first Occupancy Permit issuance for the new
building; and
b. the calendar date which is four years after the
rezoning enactment,
with interest accruing at prime plus 3% (per Bank of
Montreal daily prime rates) from the date when such
payment is due until the date when such amount is paid
in full.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 69
The deferred payment of $36,938,245 will be secured by a Letter
of Credit (the “City Security”) in the City’s standard form (see:
http://policy.vancouver.ca/AF00202.pdf), or such other security
as may be satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services at her
sole discretion. The City will be entitled to realize on the City
Security if the required payments are not made to the City in the
amounts and at the times set out above. The deferred payment
and any interest, as applicable, will also be secured by a
Development Permit hold which will be registered on title prior
to rezoning enactment and, if required, an additional Occupancy
Permit hold for the development to be released only on
confirmation of receipt by the City of the full amount of the
total CAC Offering (plus interest, if applicable).
14. Local Buyers First — The applicant’s voluntary commitment to
support residents who live in British Columbia or work in Metro
Vancouver by giving them the first opportunity to purchase new
pre-sale homes in the new development on the subject site,
which includes the following:
(i) For the first 30 calendar days after the launch of the
“Domestic Marketing Campaign” for this development
(the “Exclusive Local Buyer Period”), only those who live
in British Columbia or work in Metro Vancouver will be
eligible to purchase homes in this development, and all
such buyers will be required by the Applicant to sign a
statutory declaration attesting that they presently live in
British Columbia or work in Metro Vancouver, and that
they intend to occupy the unit they are purchasing.
(ii) While international marketing efforts may coincide with
the Domestic Marketing Campaign, such international
marketing efforts cannot commence before the Domestic
Marketing Campaign and there shall be no foreign sales
during this Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
(iii) No buyer shall be allowed to purchase more than one (1)
unit within this Exclusive Local Buyer Period.
(iv) An “assignment fee” provision will be included in the
sales contracts for local purchasers during the Exclusive
Local Buyer Period. If such buyer wants to assign their
pre-sale purchase contract prior to closing on the unit
and registration of same at the Land Title Office, such
purchaser will be required to pay the applicant (seller) an
“assignment fee” equal to 25% of the value difference
between the sale price on the assignment contract and
the original pre-sale price during the Exclusive Local
Buyer Period. Should such buyer elect to assign his/her

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 70
unit to an immediate family member, then the
“assignment fee” shall be 5%.
Public Art
15. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager (a checklist will
be provided).
Note to Applicant: Please contact 311 to be directed to the
Public Art Program Manager to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
16. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do
all things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion,
enter into a remediation agreement for the remediation
of the site and any contaminants which have migrated
from the site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Manager of Environmental Protection, City Engineer and
Director of Legal Services, including a Section 219
Covenant that there will be no occupancy of any buildings
or improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219
of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 71
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend Schedule A of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1500 West Georgia
Street”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1500 West Georgia Street”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
November 28, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1500 West Georgia Street”.
E. THAT Council add 1500 West Georgia Street (the “Crown Life Place”) to the
Vancouver Heritage Register in the “A” evaluation category.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02540)

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 72
8. TEXT AMENDMENT: 4176 Alexandra Street (York House School)
An application by Acton Ostry Architects, was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the existing CD-1 (288) (Comprehensive Development) District to
permit a phased master plan for the existing school, to increase the
maximum student enrolment from 600 to 690 and amend the auditorium
use. The master plan includes a new multi-purpose building, additions to
the senior school, and renewal of the junior school. A maximum height of
16.2 m (53 ft.) and a total floor space ratio (FSR) of 1.71 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Revised Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated January 9, 2018, from the Assistant Director
of Planning, Vancouver South, noting that staff have prepared the Summary and
Recommendation in accordance with the Policy Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled,
“CD-1 Text Amendment: 4176 Alexandra Street (York House School)”, except for changes to
the following conditions of approval:
• For condition (b)30., the number of students to be accommodated for pick-up and
drop-off activity within the new underground parking area has been changed from 150
students to a minimum of 115 students, subject to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. This amendment reflects the physical capacity
constraints of the proposed parkade while still mitigating the impact of increased
enrolment on local streets.
• For condition (c)4.(ii), the language has been updated to reflect that the three area
schools, including York House School, Little Flower Academy, and Shaughnessy
Elementary, have an existing commitment to off-set school start times.
• For condition (c)4.(iii), additional flexibility on monitoring and managing pick-up and
drop-off activity around the school has been added so that York House School is able
to pursue a variety of management strategies as future circumstances may dictate.
These changes result from further consultation between staff and the applicant team and are
intended to better facilitate the applicant’s ability to meet staff conditions to mitigate traffic
and parking impacts on the surrounding area.
No action is required by Council, as the Summary and Recommendation for this item contains
the changes explained in this memorandum.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and, along with
Engineering Services staff, responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 73
Applicant Comments
Julie Rousseau, Acting Head, York House School, provided a presentation.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 21 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 12 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 petition with 45 signatures in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Jim Hall, Chair, ARKS (Arbutus Ridge/ Kerrisdale/ Shaughnessy)
Megan Swaffield
Rosa Rahimi
Jonathan MacDonald
Lela Ling
Andrew Abramowich
Morag Pansegrau
Shamir Alibhai
Cathy Healy
The following spoke in opposition or expressed concerns regarding aspects of the application:
Dr. Martin McLaughlin
Sally MacRae
Robert MacRae
Andrew Scott
The speakers list closed at 9:21 pm, and receipt of public comments closed at 9:37 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Peter Joyce, Bunt and Associates provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and Engineering Services staff responded to
questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, January 16 and 18, 2018 74
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT discussion and decision on Item 8 be referred to the Regular Council meeting on
Tuesday, January 30, 2018, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02541)
(Councillors Affleck, Bremner and De Genova opposed)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned on January 18, 2018, at 9:42 pm.
* * * * *