REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
DECEMBER 13, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was
held on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 9:45 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor,
City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Heather Deal, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Geoff Meggs
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson, Vice-Chair
ABSENT: Councillor George Affleck (Sick Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Maria Castro, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
CONDOLENCES – Chief Leonard George
The Mayor expressed condolences on behalf of Council to the Tsleil-Waututh Nation and
everyone impacted by the loss of Chief Leonard George. He noted Chief George’s many
contributions to Indigenous Economic Development around the world, his spirituality and
passion for his people and territory, and his contribution to the arts as an actor and musician.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT – Honouring the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh Flags in the
Council Chamber
The Mayor delivered an acknowledgement honouring the Musqueam, Squamish and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and, along with their respective representatives, unveiled the three
host nations flags installation in the Council Chamber.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, December 13, 2017 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT items 3 to 5 be adopted on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
ITEMS 3 AND 4 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
1. City of Reconciliation Update
December 4, 2017
The Assistant City Manager provided opening remarks and, along with the Aboriginal Relations
Manager who presented the City of Reconciliation Update, responded to questions.
The Committee received the report for information.
2. Vancouver Commemorates Canada 150+ Final Report
November 29, 2017
The Director of Special Projects provided a presentation on the Vancouver Commemorates
Canada 150+ Final Report and, along with Cultural Services staff, the Aboriginal Relations
Manager and City Manager, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive for information the final report for the year-long project
Strengthening our Relations: Vancouver Commemorates Canada 150+.
B. THAT Council direct staff to carry forward the Canada 150+ legacy and spirit of
reconciliation and operationalize the support of annual events like the Canada
150+ celebrations, and other projects appropriate to advancing reconciliation.
C. THAT Council direct Staff to work pro-actively with external agencies, financial
institutions and government partners to lever matching funds to amplify future
community investment and impact.
D. THAT, subject to Council approval of the 2018 Operating Budget, Council
approve $350,000 to support Quick Start Recommendations #1-6 in 2018 as per
Table 2 and Appendix D of the Administrative Report dated November 29, 2017,
entitled “Vancouver Commemorates Canada 150+ Final Report”, for the
purpose of supporting three Host Nation and Indigenous cultural engagement
and recurring or new Indigenous-led or collaborative cultural projects; Source
of funds, pending matching requirements and approval of the 2018 Operating
Budget, is the 2018 City of Vancouver Innovation Fund.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, December 13, 2017 3
E. THAT Council thank the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh Nations, the
Urban Aboriginal Peoples’ Advisory Committee, Reconciliation Canada and the
Pulling Together Canoe Society, amongst other valued partners, for their
significant collaboration and successful implementation of Canada 150+.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02492)
3. Grant to Museum of Vancouver for Haida Now Exhibition and Programming
November 15, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve a grant of $200,000 to the Museum of Vancouver to research,
develop, engage, and present Haida Now – a year-long exhibition and public program
aligned with Reconciliation goals for the Museum and for the City. This grant is subject
to the Museum of Vancouver securing matching funds as outlined in the Administrative
Report dated November 15, 2017, entitled “Grant to Museum of Vancouver for Haida
Now Exhibition and Programming”, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services; source of funds to be the 2017 Innovation Fund.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02494)
4. Capital Grant for 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society) for Social
Housing
November 22, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Community Services to enter
into an agreement (the “Grant Agreement”) with Red Door Housing Society
(“Red Door”) to set out the conditions of the capital grant toward construction
of 51 new social housing units for families and seniors (the “Social Housing
Units”) on the property located at 870 East 8th Avenue (legally described as,
PID: 002-549-140; Lot G, Block 117, District Lot 264A, Plan 20632) (the
“Lands”). The Grant Agreement will be to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services, and will
state that the City will provide a capital grant of $1,060,000 (the “Capital
Grant”) to Red Door for the social housing units subject to the following:
• execution of the Grant Agreement with terms and conditions as outlined
in this report;
• registration of the Housing Agreement (as defined herein);
• all funding/financing sources secured;
• building permit issuance;
• provision of an updated pro forma which reflects current project cost
estimates (capital and operating), secured financing rates, target
affordability and rent levels; and

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, December 13, 2017 4
• agreement to reinvest any operating surplus, after adequate operating
reserve and replacement reserve costs are accounted for, to enhance
affordability in the project.
B. THAT upon approval of A above, Council approve the Capital Grant, in the
amount of $1,060,000 ($10,000 per studio and 1-bedroom unit, $20,000 per
2-bedroom unit and $30,000 per 3-bedroom unit) to Red Door to support the
construction of the Social Housing Units on the Lands. The source of funding for
the capital grant is the Capital Budget for Non-market Rental Housing (Social
Housing). Payment of the Capital Grant is anticipated in 2018 (following
issuance of a building permit), and the corresponding annual expenditure
budget will be established as part of the quarterly capital budget adjustment
process.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to secure the housing
affordability offered by Red Door (the applicant) and described in the body of
this report in the Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by-law
enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02495)
5. Contract Award for Provision of Weigh Scale Management and Point of Sale System
November 17, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services, Director of Legal Services, and the
Chief Purchasing Official and enter into a contract with Paradigm Software,
L.L.C., for the Provision of Weigh Scale Management and Point of Sale System,
for a term of three (3) years, with the option to extend for seven (7) additional
one (1) year terms, with an estimated contract value of $1,127,000 plus
applicable taxes over the initial three-year term, of which $969,000 is for the
initial capital investment and $158,000 is the estimated cost for three years of
post-implementation support. The post-implementation support component for
2018 will be funded from the annual operating budget for weigh scales for
2018, subject to approval of the 2018 Operating Budget, and will be brought
forward as part of the annual operating budget process for 2019 and 2020. The
capital investment component is to be funded from:
• $744,000 from the approved multi-year capital project budget for
Landfill and Transfer Station Scale Software; and
• $225,000 reallocation from the approved multi-year project budget for
Landfill Phase 3 North East Pre-Closure Gas Works.
Expenditures for the capital portion of this project will be managed within
Engineering Services’ overall 2018 Annual Capital Expenditure Budget, subject
to approval of the 2018 Capital Budget.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, December 13, 2017 5
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and General
Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of the City
the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of
A and B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized
signatories of the City as set out above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02496)
6. Transparency in Financial Disclosure by Members of Council
At the Regular Council meeting on November 14, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred this
matter to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
November 15, 2017, in order to hear from speakers. Subsequently, at the Standing Committee
on City Finance and Services meeting on November 15, 2017, Vancouver City Council agreed
to consider this motion, following receipt of legal advice from staff related to appropriate
occasions for Council members to declare conflict of interest.
* * * * *
At 11:40 am, Councillors Bremner, De Genova and Ball rose and declared a conflict of
interest, due to lack of impartiality on the matter, and therefore recused themselves from
the discussion, debate and vote. They left the Council Chamber and only Councillors Bremner
and De Genova returned at the conclusion of Item 6.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The public has an increasing interest in greater transparency in government
and the City of Vancouver has been at the forefront of efforts to increase
access to information, including establishing the first open data policy for a
major city in Canada;
2. The financial interests of members of Council are currently disclosed under the
provincial Financial Disclosure Act;
3. The province of British Columbia states on the government website that "The
intent of the Financial Disclosure Act is to identify what areas of influence and
possible financial benefit an elected official, nominee or designated employee
might have by virtue of their office, and to ensure the public has reasonable
access to the information.";

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, December 13, 2017 6
4. On a number of occasions some Councillors have referenced employment
relationships or declared conflicts with corporate entities not listed on their
Statement of Financial Disclosure;
5. Recently a Councillor stated they would donate 100% of their publicly funded
salary to charity indicating they receive substantial personal financial benefit
from private interests but the exact interests are unclear due to the nature of
their external employment;
6. These undisclosed conflicts appear to exist as a result of Councillors who work
as lobbyists or government and public relation consultants on behalf of other
corporate interests.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council request staff to provide a mechanism for
members of the public to have access to information on potential conflicts of interest
for members of Council who list as sources of income public relations firms,
government relations firms, consultancies, holding companies of other entities which
obscure pecuniary interest.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02493)
(Councillors Ball, Bremner and De Genova ineligible to vote due to Conflict of Interest)
The Committee adjourned at 12 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
DECEMBER 13, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on
Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 12:02 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall,
following the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the
recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Geoff Meggs
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor George Affleck (Sick Leave)
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Maria Castro, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
December 13, 2017
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. City of Reconciliation Update
2. Vancouver Commemorates Canada 150+ Final Report
3. Grant to Museum of Vancouver for Haida Now Exhibition and Programming
4. Capital Grant for 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society) for Social Housing
5. Contract Award for Provision of Weigh Scale Management and Point of Sale System
6. Transparency in Financial Disclosure by Members of Council

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, December 13, 2017 2
Items 1 to 6
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of Wednesday, December 13, 2017, as contained in
items 1 to 6, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND ITEMS 3 AND 4
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
BY-LAWS
Councillors Bremner and Jang advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the Public
Hearing in relation to By-law 1, and they would therefore be voting on its enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
By-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and authorize the Mayor and
City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted By-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend By-law to amend CD-1 (445) By-law No. 9204 re: 969 Burrard Street
and 1019-1045 Nelson Street (By-law No. 12004)
(Councillor De Genova ineligible for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 12:04 pm.
* * * * *