PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
DECEMBER 6, 2017
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, at
6:05 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
Leslie Tuerlings, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, Deal, Louie, Reimer, and Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillors De Genova, Jang and Stevenson absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive House Buildings
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, in
consultation with the General Manager of Development, Buildings and Licensing, was
considered as follows:
Summary: To create more flexibility in development regulations, amendments are
proposed to the Zoning and Development By-law to allow floor area, height,
setback, yard and building depth relaxations to support applications that
meet the Passive House standard and achieve certification. As well,
amendments are proposed to the Building and Encroachment By-laws to
make the process of providing solar shading easier for applicants by
removing the requirement to obtain a legal encroachment agreement in
cases where solar shades protrude over City property.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application and offered additional recommendations:
Bryn Davidson
Ian Robertson
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:24 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to allow
for relaxations to floor area, height, setback, rear yard, and building depth
requirements for buildings that meet the Passive House standard and achieve

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 3
certification, generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive House
Buildings”, be approved.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time
of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law, the
amendment to Vancouver’s Building By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing
Regulatory Barriers to Passive House Buildings”.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time
of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law, the
amendment to the Encroachment By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing
Regulatory Barriers to Passive House Buildings”.
D. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to bring forward for Council’s adoption, at the time of enactment of
the by-law amendments, the “Passive House – Guidelines for Larger Projects”
generally as set out in Appendix D, and the “Passive House – Guidelines for
Residences in RS Districts”, generally as set out in Appendix E of the Policy
Report dated October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing Regulatory Barriers to
Passive House Buildings”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02417)
(Councillor Ball opposed)
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: Report Back on Energy Efficiency Updates to Vancouver’s
Building By-Law for Low-Rise Multi-family Residential Buildings
An application by the General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to create a new floor area
exclusion for exterior wall thickness in residential buildings of six storeys or
less, and to add discretion to the existing exclusion for high-performance
walls, both to enable greater energy efficiency in the construction of
low-rise multi-family residential buildings.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 4
Summary of Correspondence
Council received one piece of correspondence in support of the application since it was
referred to public hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public
comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application and offered additional recommendations:
Harbi Gill
Shawn Gill
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:47 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to create a
new floor area exclusion for exterior wall thickness in residential buildings of
six storeys or less, and to add discretion to the existing exclusion for
high-performance walls, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated October 23, 2017, entitled “Report Back on Energy Efficiency
Updates to Vancouver’s Building By-Law for Low Rise Multi-family Residential
Buildings”, be approved.
B. THAT staff be directed to prepare and publish a bulletin clarifying upgrade
options allowed under the Building By-law that provide flexibility for
four-to six-storey multifamily residential.
C. THAT staff be directed to recommend amendments to the Building By-law to
provide greater flexibility in renovations of residential heritage or character
buildings of three storeys or less and to publish a guide for homeowners in
consultation with the Vancouver Heritage Foundation.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02418)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 5
3. REZONING: 177 West Pender Street
An application by the Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency (VAHA) was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 177 West Pender Street from DD (Downtown) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
10-storey residential building containing a total of 90 social housing units. A
height of 33.3 metres (109 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 6.98 are
proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Council also had before it a Memorandum dated November 23, 2017, from the Acting Assistant
Director – Downtown Division, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, noting that after
finalizing the Policy Report dated October 17, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 177 West
Pender Street”, the applicant team took a more detailed look at the proposed Form of
Development conditions, which requested increases to the amount of indoor amenity space on
Level 10 and outdoor amenity area (urban agriculture space at the roof level). To
accommodate Building By-law exiting requirements, as well as a small elevator lobby for roof
access, an additional 28.57 sq. m (307.5 sq. ft.) of floor area, equivalent to 0.05 FSR was
necessary. The posted by-law for the item had been changed as shown below: deleted text is
greyed and struck-through; added text is underlined.
3.2 The floor space ratio for all uses combined must not exceed 6.93 6.98.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Luke Harrison, Director/Chief Executive Officer, Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency,
provided a verbal presentation and responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 1 piece of correspondence in support of the application;
• 2 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 6
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Rider Cooey
Jean Swanson
Sara Sagaii
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:26 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided clarification regarding affordability
measures.
Applicant Closing Comments
Mr. Harrison responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT the application by the Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency (VAHA), as
agent for the City of Vancouver, to rezone 177 West Pender Street [Lots 37 and
38, Block 28, District Lot 541, Plan 210; PIDs 004-355-521 and 004-355-547
respectively] from DD (Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 6.00 to 6.98
and the height from 32.0 m (105.0 ft.) to 33.3 m (109.2 ft.), to allow for the
construction of a 10-storey residential building containing 90 social housing
units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
October 17, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 177 West Pender Street”, be
approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by DYS Architecture and stamped
“Received City Planning Department, June 12, 2017” provided that the
Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 7
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the livability of the dwelling units, as
follows:
(i) Increase ceiling height of all micro dwelling units to minimum
2.7 m (9 ft.);
(ii) Add weather protection (cantilevered canopies, maximum
5 ft. depth) at entries to private terraces at Level 8;
(iii) Revise the exterior walls of the courtyard to a light colour, to
maximize reflected light in the units.
Note to Applicant: The Director of Planning may consider a building
height up to 33.3 m (109.2 ft.) to facilitate improved ceiling heights and
livability, to meet the intent of the Micro Dwelling Policies and
Guidelines.
2. Design development to improve the building elevations, as follows:
(i) Simplify the design of the exposed side walls, and provide an
appropriate surface for future mural and/or public art
installation; and
(ii) Consideration to add more vibrant colors and detailing to the
front façade, to better relate to the surrounding neighbourhood.
Note to Applicant: Given that delivery of public art may not be secured
through the rezoning application process, the side walls should be
designed to have visual interest on an “as is” basis (i.e. through the use
of colors and/or a simple surface pattern).
3. Design development to improve the building entry, as follows:
(i) Provide windows from the office and/or amenity room, to
improve transparency and security;
(ii) Provide racks for on-site bike spaces for visitors (refer to
Engineering Condition 13); and
(iii) Consideration to provide an event board, planters, special
lighting or other features to activate the entry niche.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 8
Note to Applicant: It is anticipated that the entry niche may need to be
widened to accommodate bike parking. A reduction in the number of
Class B bicycle spaces and/or the provision of angled bike racks may be
explored, in order to minimize the impact on the office and amenity
spaces.
4. Design development to improve the common amenities, as follows:
(i) Create a more functional common amenity room at Level 1;
(ii) Provide a second common amenity room at Level 10, contiguous
to the rooftop patio;
(iii) Enlarge and further develop the rooftop patio(s), to
accommodate separate spaces for socializing, dining and urban
agriculture (refer to Landscape condition 8);
(iv) Add weather protection (cantilevered canopies, maximum 1.5 m
(5 ft.) depth) at the entry to the common outdoor space(s);
(v) Consideration to provide small amenity spaces (i.e. lounges, or
seating areas adjacent to hallways) on floors above Level 1.
Note to Applicant: The Level 1 common amenity space is oversized, and
would not function well as a single room. Within this space, a generous
multi-purpose room should be defined (approximately 74-93 sq. m, or
800-1,000 sq. ft.), with good solar exposure, a kitchenette, and a
nearby accessible bathroom. The remaining space may be programmed
with bulk storage, meeting rooms, or other activity rooms, as is suitable
for the operator.
5. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any built
features intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable, and provide a design
rationale for the features noted. For more information, see the
guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.)
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 9
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider use of a
legend or key to features on the drawings.
Sustainability
7. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements of the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard approved by
the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings.
The requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate that
the development is on track to achieve the above requirements at each
stage of permit. For more detail on the above requirements and what
must be submitted at each stage, refer to the most recent bulletin
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings – Process and Requirements
(amended April 28, 2017 or later).
Landscape
8. Design development to increase the amount of common outdoor area
and expand programming by providing intensive green roof to the entire
rooftop, as a common amenity area.
Note to Applicant: This should include additional, diverse programming
that promotes social interaction. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban Agriculture
Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide maximum solar
exposure, universal accessibility and provided with amenities such as,
raised beds, water for irrigation, potting bench, tool storage and
composting. Refer also to Urban Design condition 4.
9. Design development to further detail and demonstrate where illustrated
precedent images are proposed.
Note to Applicant: Precedent images are supported and encouraged.
10. Design development to improve sustainability and expand programming
to include edible plants integrated into landscape design, in addition to
urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as part of
the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should reference and be

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 10
designed to adhere to Council’s Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the
Private Realm and should provide maximum solar exposure, universal
accessibility and provided with amenities such as, raised beds, water for
irrigation, potting bench, tool storage and composting.
11. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths for
tree and shrub planters to ensure long term viability of the landscape.
Note to Applicant: Planters may need to be altered to provide adequate
depth and continuous soil volumes. Growing mediums and planting
depths should exceed BCSLA standard.
12. At the development permit submission stage:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for the proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant
materials (with common and botanical names, plant sizes and
quantities), paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading
and other landscape features. Plant material should be listed in
a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The
Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including planters
on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details must be dimensioned and
confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is deep enough
to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the future.
(iii) Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to public
realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated
private to public transition of spaces.
Note to applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences
and planters. The location of the underground parking slab
should be included in the section.
(iv) New proposed street trees should be coordinated with the Park
Board and Engineering and noted “Final species, quantity and
spacing to the approval of City Engineer and Park Board”.
Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering Streets
Division regarding street tree spacing and quantity. Contact
Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board regarding tree
species.
(v) A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for
all planters on slab.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 11
(vi) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
Engineering
13. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as follows:
(i) Provision of a minimum of 2 Class B bicycle parking spaces to be
provided fully on private property.
(ii) Provision of design elevations at all entrances and at all four
corners of the Class A loading space to calculate the slope and
the crossfall.
Note to Applicant: No more than 5% slope and crossfall is
permitted for the Class A loading.
(iii) Update drawing A2.01 to show the access door to the 14 Class A
bicycle storage room.
(iv) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle rooms.
14. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering Service to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan
to minimize street use during excavation and construction (i.e.
consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent private
property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead
time for any major crane erection / removal or slab pour that requires
additional street use beyond the already identified project street use
permissions.
15. Clarification is required as to whether the encroachments beyond the
property lines onto City street and neighbouring properties shown on
pages A3.01 to A3.04 are actually proposed or merely drafting errors:
the metal roof cornice, the projection at the Level 8 balcony, the Juliet
balconies and the projection above Level 2.
Note to Applicant: None of these encroachments appear on any plan
view. All encroaching elements are to be deleted.
16. Provide improvements to the access to the garbage rooms to facilitate
pick up. Provide a door (rollup or swing) wide enough so garbage bins
can be removed from the storage area.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 12
17. A canopy application is required. Canopies must be fully demountable
and drained to the buildings internal drainage system and should
consider the dripline such that maximum sidewalk coverage is provided
by the proposed canopy.
18. The following areaway decommissioning requirements are to be met:
(i) The areaway cut-off wall shall be designed by a Professional
Structural Engineer and constructed on the property owner’s
side of the property line. A signed and sealed drawing of the
cut-off wall shall be submitted to Engineering Services.
(ii) The property owner shall be responsible for removing and/or
relocating all utilities, mechanical equipment, construction
materials, debris etc. located in the areaway.
(iii) The areaway cut-off wall shall be waterproofed and drained to
the satisfaction of the property owner.
(iv) The areaway void shall be backfilled in accordance with the
City’s Street Restoration Manual. No demolition material or
construction debris shall be used as backfill.
(v) The existing areaway roof structures (sidewalk) shall be removed
and the outer areaway walls shall be broken down to a minimum
of 1.5 m (5 ft.) below grade.
(vi) The sidewalk shall be reconstructed to match the sidewalk
standard for the area and in accordance with the City’s Street
Restoration Manual.
(vii) A record of inspection of the completed cut off wall shall be
submitted to Engineering Services.
(viii) Update the site and landscape plan to reflect the areaway
removal, sidewalk and street tree provisions.
19. Rezoned property must include a storm water and rain water
management plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and comply with the Sewer and
Watercourse By-law. The plan shall achieve the following:
(i) Retention or infiltration of the 6-month storm event volume
(24 mm) onsite;
(ii) Treat the 2-year event (48mm) on site; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 13
(iii) Maintain the pre-development 2014 IDF-10 year storm event
rate. The post development estimate shall use the 2100 IDF
curve to account for climate change.
20. For building fixtures, install Energy Star rated appliances (e.g. clothes
washers) and meet the January 1, 2018, Vancouver building code
plumbing fixture rates.
21. At the time of occupancy, the applicant is to commit to providing
parking usage statistics such as occupancy counts throughout the day,
number of parking passes sold and/or distributed, for vehicle parking
and bicycle parking by staff and residents after one full year of
operation of the new building.
Housing Policy and Projects
22. Design development to explore opportunities to locate the heat
treatment room closer to the loading space.
23. Increase the amount of storage space provided for each unit and
explore opportunities to relocate some of the storage lockers to level 1.
Technical Review
24. Each micro dwelling unit must measure no less than 23.2 sq. m
(250 sq. ft.).
25. Compliance with the Roof Mounted Energy Technologies and Green
Roofs – Discretionary Height Increases Bulletin for relaxation of building
height above the top of 10th level roof parapet to the satisfaction of
the Director of Planning.
Note to Applicant: Appurtenances such as guardrails and roof top access
structures can be relaxed from building height with compliance of the
above noted bulletin. Guardrails should be set back from the outer
perimeter of the roof and be no higher than the minimum required by
Vancouver Building By-law.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as necessary,
and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 14
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 37 and 38, Block 28, DL 541, Plan 210 to create a
single parcel.
2. Discharge of Easement and Indemnity Agreement BM276986 from title.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an occupancy
permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment will
satisfactorily address this condition for zoning enactment. Prior to
building occupancy the applicant is to supply a written request to the
City, a fresh title search and a copy of the documents along with
executable discharge documents to affect the release.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street
dedications and rights of way for the services are provided. No
development permit for the site will be issued until the security for the
services are provided:
(i) Decommissioning of the existing areaway (cavity below the city
sidewalk) adjacent the site. See Development permit conditions
for detailed requirements.
(ii) Provision of new CIP concrete sidewalks on Pender Street
adjacent the site in keeping with areaway standards.
(iii) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space permits.
(iv) Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
(v) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the details
to determine if water main upgrading is required. Please supply
project details including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler
demand, hydrant load, and domestic water demands to
determine if water main upgrading is required. Should upgrading
be necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 15
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be
primary with all electrical plant, which include but not limited to
System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and
kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private
property with no reliance on public property for placement of these
features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the
existing overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with B.C.
Hydro that an area has been defined within the development footprint
to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm that this space
has been allocated and agreement between both parties has been met.
5. Provision of a letter of commitment from the building operator to
provide the City with information on bicycle ownership, utilization of
Class A bicycle spaces, and issues or challenges related to bicycle
storage or accommodation in the building, and actions to address those
issues or challenges, six months after occupancy, and afterwards from
time to time at the request of the City.
Sustainability
6. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the Director
of Legal Services, that requires the future owner of the building to
report energy use data, on an aggregated basis, for the building as a
whole and certain common areas and building systems. Such an
agreement will further provide for the hiring of a qualified service
provider to assist the building owner for a minimum of three years in
collecting and submitting energy use data to the City.
Housing
7. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Community Services to enter into a Housing
Agreement for 60 years or the life of the building, whichever is greater,
which will contain the following terms and conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 16
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less than
one month at a time;
(iv) A requirement that a minimum of 30 units (33%) be rented for no
more than the shelter component of Income Assistance;
(v) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of “social
housing” in the applicable City development cost levy by-law;
and
(vi) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services may in
their sole discretion require.
Environmental Contamination
8. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services (Environmental
Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a
remediation agreement for the remediation of the site and any
contaminants which have migrated from the site on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental
Services, the General Manager of Engineering Services and
Director of Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or improvements on
the site constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the on-site
and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the preceding
agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the property
owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject sites as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-laws.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 17
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, in accordance with Schedule “A” to the Sign By-law, generally as set out
in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated October 17, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 177 West Pender Street”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated October 17, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 177 West Pender Street”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
October 17, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 177 West Pender Street”.
E. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (b) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated October 17,
2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 177 West Pender Street”, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for
enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Community Services.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 18
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02419)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
4. REZONING: Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct Plan Sub-Area Amendments and
Proposed Six-Storey District Schedule
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law and Joyce-Collingwood
Station Precinct Plan to bring forward zoning changes, consequential
amendments, and accompanying development policies and guidelines to
manage future development. The proposed provisions include: a new J4
sub-area, including a six-storey District Schedule to facilitate the delivery of
multi-family housing; mixed-use rezoning policies for Joyce and Euclid;
revisions to the T2 sub-area boundary to allow townhouses and four-storey
buildings; new ownership and rental opportunities; expanded commercial
and live-work opportunities along Joyce Street; and public realm
improvements.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 8 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 5 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 19
The following spoke in support of the application:
Davy Chiu
Kalvin Saran
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Denise Brooks
The following expressed concerns regarding density and infrastructure in the area:
Jose Boal
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:20 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff noted two typographical errors that would
need to be corrected in Appendices E and F.
The motion below contains changes from the original Summary and Recommendation, as put
forward by staff, shown in bold italics:
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law to achieve the following:
(i) Create a new district schedule for RM-10 and RM-10N zoning generally
as set out in Appendix E of the Policy Report dated October 23, 2017,
entitled “Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct Plan Sub-Area
Amendments and Proposed Six Storey District Schedule”; with changes
to section 4.15.1, as follows: strike the words, “is this correct or
should it be a different zone?”.
(ii) Rezone lands as identified in Schedule A and B of Appendix E of the
above-noted report;
(iii) Revise Schedule F of the Zoning and Development By-law as set out in
Appendix F of the above-noted report; and
(iv) Create a new definition of “plaza,” and identify “plaza” as an eligible
amenity, as set out in Appendix E of the above-noted report.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 20
B. THAT Council approve amendments to the Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct
Plan to:
(i) Include new sub-area policies for designated areas between Euclid
Avenue and Kingsway as outlined in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated October 23, 2017, entitled “Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct
Plan Sub-Area Amendments and Proposed Six-Storey District Schedule”;
(ii) Amend the existing “T2” sub-area policies as described in Appendix B of
the above-noted report;
(iii) Clarify existing policy and design guidelines, as outlined in Appendices C
and D of the above-noted report; and
(iv) Set Community Amenity Contribution targets of $64.58 per square metre
($6 per sq. ft.) in sub-area J4.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for Council approval, at the time of enactment of such amending
by-laws, related amendments to the following by-laws and policies:
(i) Parking By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix F of the Policy
Report dated October 23, 2017, entitled “Joyce Collingwood Station
Precinct Plan Sub Area Amendments and Proposed Six-Storey District
Schedule”; with changes to section 4.2.1.4, as follows: strike the
words, “and the total of all spaces must not exceed the maximum
parking limit.”
(ii) Subdivision By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix F of the
above-noted report.
D. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for the
new RM-10 District Schedule, generally as set out in Appendix G of the Policy
Report dated October 23, 2017, entitled “Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct
Plan Sub-Area Amendments and Proposed Six-Storey District Schedule”, be
approved.
E. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, Council resolves to allow the expansion of Live-Work as a
use outside the DD, DEOD, HA-1/1A and HA-2 Districts.
F. THAT, at the time of enactment of amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council adoption the RM-10
and RM-10N Guidelines, generally in accordance with Appendix G of the Policy
Report dated October 23, 2017, entitled “Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct
Plan Sub Area Amendments and Proposed Six-Storey District Schedule”.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 21
G. THAT, at the time of enactment of amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council adoption related
amendments to the Strata Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones, generally in
accordance with Appendix H of the Policy Report dated October 23, 2017,
entitled “Joyce Collingwood Station Precinct Plan Sub-Area Amendments and
Proposed Six Storey District Schedule”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02420)
5. TEXT AMENDMENT: Miscellaneous Amendments to the Zoning and Development,
Sign and Sign Fee By-laws
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make miscellaneous amendments to Section 2 of the Zoning and
Development By-law, Section 3.2.M in the M-1A District Schedule, Section
4.7.9(c) in the RM-8 and RM-8N Districts Schedule, Sections 2.2.DW, 3.2.DW,
4.1.2, 4.7.15(c), 4.16 and 4.19.1 in the RM-9, RM-9A, RM-9N, RM-9AN and
RM-9BN Districts Schedule, and Section 4.7.2 in the RT-6 District Schedule;
to the Sign By-law, including Section 5.1, Section 7, Parts 9 through 14 to
clarify regulations on awning, canopy, first storey fascia and projecting
signs, and to update Schedule A; and to the Sign Fee By-law to correct the
re-inspection fee and to clarify fees for billboard signs, revisions to sign
permits and for Sign By-law amendment applications. The amendments
improve clarity, update terminology, address inadvertent omissions and help
to streamline the development review process.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the following conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the
Public Hearing agenda.
Council also had before it a Memorandum dated November 23, 2017, from the Acting Assistant
Director, City-Wide and Regional Planning, which posed additional recommendations to
amend the Sign By-law and Sign Fee By-law to address an error and to provide clarification.
The Summary and Recommendation was revised and re-numbered to include the following
recommendations:
1. To amend the Sign By-law:
• “B. (iii) amend Section 5.6 to prohibit a sign from being located on a site
between a building line and an adjoining or projected street or lane;
Section 14.3 of the Zoning and Development By-law prohibits development on any part
of a site between a building line established by Parts I and II of Schedule E and the
limit of the adjoining or projected street or lane. To align with this, it is

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 22
recommended that Section 5.6 be amended to prohibit a sign from being located in
this area. A sign would be permitted to project over a building line, provided it meets
the clearance requirements for signs projecting over a street. The proposed
amendment is as follows:
“5.6 Signs and Building Lines
Subject to the provisions of this by-law, a sign may be located in or project over a
building line prescribed by Schedule E of the Zoning and Development By-law, if it
complies with Section 5.9.”
• “B. (viii) amend the regulations for second storey fascia signs in Parts 9
through 14 to clarify that the requirement for a second storey fascia sign to be
located between the second and third storey windows only applies to buildings
with more than two stories;”
The Sign By-law requires that second storey fascia signs be located between the top of
a second story window and the bottom of a third storey window (or if no window, a
maximum of 0.75 m above the floor of the 3rd storey). This is intended to apply to
buildings with more than two storeys, although it is not explicitly stated. It is
recommended that the second storey fascia sign regulations in Parts 9 through 14 be
amended to clearly articulate this. Exempting buildings with only two stories from this
requirement provides more flexibility for locating second storey fascia signs; instead
of only being allowed above a window, a fascia sign can be located anywhere on the
second storey, similar to the regulations that apply to fascia signs on the top storey of
taller buildings.
2. To amend the Sign Fee By-law:
• “C. (i) amend Section 1.1, Permit Application Fee, to clarify the permit
application fee for a billboard sign subject to Part 15 Director of Planning
Review;”
In the new Sign Fee By-law, which comes into effect in January 2018, the permit
application fee for a billboard sign is $694. The permit fee for a billboard sign that
involves Director of Planning review for consideration of a relaxation to the Sign By-
law is an additional $694, for a total of $1388. However, it is not clearly stated that
both fees apply. To clarify this, it is recommended that the fee schedule be amended
to clarify that the total fee for a billboard sign subject to Part 15 Director of Planning
Review, including one building field inspection is $1388.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 23
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:31 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
October 31, 2017, entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments - Zoning and
Development, Sign and Sign Fee By-laws”, to achieve the following:
(i) amend the definition for General Office in Section 2 to correct a
reference to Digital Entertainment and Information Communication
Technology;
(ii) amend Section 3.2.M in the M-1A District Schedule to replace an
obsolete reference to Software Manufacturing with Information
Communication Technology Manufacturing;
(iii) amend Section 4.7.9(c) in the RM-8 and RM-8N Districts Schedule to add
a floor area exclusion for heating and mechanical equipment;
(iv) amend the RM-9, RM-9A, RM-9N, RM-9AN and RM-9BN Districts Schedule
to:
1. amend Sections 2.2.DW and 3.2.DW to prevent the development
of One-Family Dwellings and One-Family Dwellings with
Secondary Suite on newly consolidated sites;
2. add the following conditional uses to Section 3.2.DW to provide
more options for small multi-family development:
• One-Family Dwelling on sites with more than one
principal building;
• One-Family Dwelling with Secondary Suite on sites with
more than one principal building, provided that there is
no more than one Secondary Suite for each dwelling unit;
• Two-Family Dwelling on sites with more than one
principal building;
• Two-Family Dwelling with Secondary Suite on sites with
more than one principal building, provided that there is
no more than one Secondary Suite for each dwelling unit;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 24
3. add a new Section 4.1.2 to specify that the minimum site area is
334 m2 for the following uses:
• One-Family Dwelling on sites with more than one
principal building;
• One-Family Dwelling with Secondary Suite on sites with
more than one principal building, provided that there is
no more than one Secondary Suite for each dwelling unit;
• Two-Family Dwelling on sites with more than one
principal building;
• Two-Family Dwelling with Secondary Suite on sites with
more than one principal building, provided that there is
no more than one Secondary Suite for each dwelling unit;
4. add a floor area exclusion for heating and mechanical equipment
to Section 4.7.15(c);
5. delete Section 4.16 to remove building depth requirements;
6. amend Section 4.19.1 to delete the words “in combination with
a multiple dwelling or freehold rowhouse”; and
(v) amend Section 4.7.2 in the RT-6 District Schedule, approved by Council
on October 3, 2017, to remove an incorrect reference to a floor area
increase.
B. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sign By-law, generally as
presented in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign and Sign Fee
By-laws” and in the Memorandum dated November 23, 2017, entitled “RTS No.
12259 - Miscellaneous Amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign, and
Sign Fee By-laws”, to achieve the following:
(i) amend the Table of Contents to correct a numbering error;
(ii) amend Section 5.1 to add a new clause to prohibit flashing, blinking or
intermittent illumination on signs;
(iii) amend Section 5.6 to prohibit a sign from being located on a site
between a building line and an adjoining or projected street or lane;
(iv) amend Section 7, Table 1 to correct a typographical error;
(v) amend the regulations for awning signs in Parts 9 through 14 to clarify
that awning signs cannot be located on the same frontage of premises
as first storey fascia signs, on premises with a frontage that is less than
30 m in length;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 25
(vi) amend the regulations for canopy signs in Parts 9, 11,12,13 and 14 to
clarify that canopy signs cannot be located on the same frontage of
premises as first storey fascia signs, on premises with a frontage that is
less than 30 m in length;
(vii) amend the regulations for first storey fascia signs in Parts 9 through 14
to add a provision that clarifies that first storey fascia signs cannot be
located on the same frontage of premises as awning signs or canopy
signs, on premises with a frontage less than 30 m in length;
(viii) amend the regulations for second storey fascia signs in Parts 9 through
14 to clarify that the requirement for a second storey fascia sign to be
located between the second and third storey windows only applies to
buildings with more than two stories;
(ix) amend the regulations for projecting signs in Parts 9 through 13 to:
1. clarify that projecting signs are to be located on the frontage of
a first storey premises;
2. clarify that multi-storey buildings may also have a projecting
sign that includes either the name of occupants of the building
or the building name: buildings with a frontage that is less than
100 m long may have one and buildings with a building frontage
100 m or longer may have two;
3. allow more flexibility for locating projecting signs on the
frontage of a premises; and
(x) amend Schedule A to remove reference to an obsolete CD-1 district and
to add CD-1 districts that were inadvertently omitted from the new Sign
By-law.
C. THAT Council approve the amendment the Sign Fee By-law, generally as
presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign and Sign Fee
By-laws” and in the Memorandum dated November 23, 2017, entitled “RTS
No. 12259 - Miscellaneous Amendments to the Zoning and Development, Sign,
and Sign Fee By-laws”, to achieve the following:
(i) amend Section 1.1, Permit Application Fee, to clarify the permit
application fee for a billboard sign subject to Part 15 Director of
Planning Review;
(ii) amend Section 1.2, Re-Inspection Fee, to increase the re-inspection fee
from $169 to $184 to reflect a similar fee increase for a building permit
re-inspection fee;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 26
(iii) amend Section 1.4, Fee for Revisions to Sign Permit, to clarify that the
fee of $45 is per hour or portion thereof; and
(iv) amend Section 1.5 of Schedule 1, Sign By-law Amendment Application
Fees, to correct an error of omission, by adding a reference to
Schedule B.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02421)
6. SIGN BY-LAW AMENDMENT: 798 Granville Street - Electronic Video Sign
An application by Bonnis Properties (Robson) Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Sign By-law to allow two 9.2 m x 6.1 m (56 sq. m) electronic
video signs on the second and third floors of the existing building at
798 Granville Street (at the corner of Granville and Robson), replacing two
smaller electronic video signs currently located on the third floor. As the
proposed signs are larger, the financial contribution and airtime public
benefits associated with video signs at this location would also increase.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, subject to the following
conditions as proposed for adoption by resolution of Council, recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 5 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 3 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 2 pieces of correspondence in the “other” category.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following expressed concerns regarding various aspects of the application:
Oleh Llnyckyj
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:44 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 27
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Applicant Closing Comments
Kerry Bonnis, Bonnis Properties, provided comments and responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Bonnis Properties (Robson) Inc., the registered owners
of a building having a civic address of 798 Granville (PID: 025-234-480, Lot G,
District Lot 541, Group 1, New Westminster District Plan LMP52542), to amend
the Sign By-law to allow two electronic video signs at the corner of Granville
and Robson, replacing two existing video signs, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated October 17, 2017 entitled “798 Granville
Street – Electronic Video Sign – Sign By-law Amendment”, be approved subject
to the conditions set out in B below.
B. THAT, prior to enactment of the by-law to amend the Sign By-law, the Director
of Legal Services be authorized to enter into a new replacement agreement to
set out the terms and conditions of the use and operation of the screens (the
“Agreement”) with the Owner on the terms and conditions set out in
Appendices B and C of the Policy Report dated October 17, 2017, entitled
“798 Granville Street – Electronic Video Sign – Sign By-law Amendment”, and on
such other terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Legal
Services and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law amending the Sign By-law
and any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition
of amending the Sign By-law are at the risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 28
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02422)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
7. TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to Official Development Plans to Add Temporary
Modular Housing as a Permitted Use
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To introduce new language to add Temporary Modular Housing (TMH) as a
permitted use in Official Development Plan (ODP) areas, subject to
compliance with the provisions of Section 11.31 of the Zoning and
Development By-law which stipulate additional regulations for TMH.
Including similar enabling language in ODPs across the city will allow for the
consideration of TMH more widely across communities, as another means to
effectively and efficiently address Vancouver’s homelessness crisis.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:01 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 29
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council approve the application to amend the Coal Harbour, Downtown,
Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer, False Creek, False Creek North, Southeast False
Creek and Southeast Granville Slopes Official Development Plans, generally as outlined
in Appendices A to G of the Policy Report dated October 30, 2017, entitled
“Amendments to Official Development Plans to Add Temporary Modular Housing as a
Permitted Use”, to include provisions to allow for the use of sites for temporary
modular housing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02423)
8. TEXT AMENDMENT: Amendments to the Regional Context Statement Official
Development Plan By-law To Facilitate the Development of Temporary Modular
Housing
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Regional Context Statement Official Development Plan By-law
to adjust the boundaries of the “General Urban” regional land use
designation. This would allow a site located at 1115, 1131 and 1141 Franklin
Street to be considered as a location for a Temporary Modular Housing
project.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:05 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, December 6, 2017 30
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT Council approve the application to amend the Regional Context Statement
Official Development Plan By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Amendments to the Regional Context
Statement Official Development Plan By-law To Facilitate the Development of
Temporary Modular Housing”, to change the designation of the following:
(i) 1115 Franklin Street [PID: 029-581-664; Lot 6, Block K, District Lot 182,
Group 1 NWD, Plan EPP35199],
(ii) 1131 Franklin Street [PID: 007-945-051; Lot 19, Except the North 7 Feet
Now Road and Plan EPP35067, of Lot 2, Block K, District Lot 182, Plan
176], and
(iii) 1141 Franklin Street [PID: 007-945-078; Lot 20, Except the North 7 Feet
Now Road and Plan EPP35067, of Lot 2, Block K, District Lot 182Plan
176]
from “Industrial” to “General Urban”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02424)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 9:08 pm.
* * * * *