PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
DECEMBER 4, 2025
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday, December 4, 2025, at
6:06 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Public Hearing was convened in
person and via electronic means as authorized under Section 566 of the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Deputy Mayor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Chair
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business,
5 pm onwards)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr*
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Mayor Ken Sim (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Pete Fry (Leave of Absence – Personal Reasons)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. CD-1 (887) Text Amendment: 625-777 Pacific Street and 1390 Granville Street
(Granville Loops) (Text Amendment Impacts 675 Pacific Street and 1395 Rolston
Street Only)
An application by the City of Vancouver was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (887) By-law No. 14237, a site that covers four blocks and
divided into Sub-areas A to D, referred to as the “Granville Loops.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 2
The application is to: (a) remove the minimum floor area requirement for the
childcare use, (b) increase the floor area dedicated to social housing by
3,565 sq. m (38,373 sq. ft.) (generally replacing the floor area previously
allocated for childcare with additional social housing units), (c) increase the
building height for appurtenances by 1.5 m (5 ft.), and (d) modify the form of
development from two towers into one tower. Together, these changes would
generate approximately 34 additional units of social housing, increasing the
total number of social housing units in Sub-area C from approximately 178 to
212.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral scheduled to the Public Hearing and
before the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• two pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• four pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• one piece of correspondence dealing with other aspects of the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation, and along with
Deputy City Manager Amrolia and the Director of Non-Market Housing Development, responded
to questions.
Applicant Comments
None.
Speakers
The Chair called three times for speakers for and against the application and Paul Lock spoke in
opposition to the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:36 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
None.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 3
Staff Closing Comments
Deputy City Manager Amrolia responded to questions.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Councillor Dominato
THAT in D the words “the city” be struck and the words “downtown Vancouver” be
inserted.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11185)
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT the application by the City of Vancouver, the registered owner of the lands
located at 675 Pacific Street and 1395 Rolston Street [PID 032-415-770; Lot C
Block 113 District Lot 541 Group 1 New Westminster District Plan EPP131478] to
amend the text of CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District (887) By-law
No. 14237 to remove the minimum floor area requirement for the childcare use,
to increase the permitted floor area for social housing from 15,458 sq. m
(166,389 sq. ft.) to 19,023 sq. m (204,762 sq. ft.), and to increase the building
height from 83.7 m (275 ft.) to 85.2 m (280 ft.), generally as presented in the
Referral Report dated October 21, 2025, entitled “CD-1 (887) Text Amendment:
625-777 Pacific Street and 1390 Granville Street (Granville Loops) (Text
Amendment Impacts 675 Pacific Street and 1395 Rolston Street Only)”, be
approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft by-law to amend CD-1 (887) By-law No. 14237,
prepared for the Public Hearing in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report, be approved in principle;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated October 21, 2025,
entitled “CD-1 (887) Text Amendment: 625-777 Pacific Street and 1390 Granville
Street (Granville Loops) (Text Amendment Impacts 675 Pacific Street and 1395
Rolston Street Only)”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the
CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 4
C. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning, the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward the
Granville Loops Design Guidelines for adoption, at the time of enactment of the
zoning by-law.
D. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning, Council approve the
reallocation of the $7.4 million community amenity contribution received from the
2022 Granville Loops rezoning for supporting the delivery of the previously
contemplated on-site childcare to instead support the delivery of new childcare
spaces in downtown Vancouver.
E. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11186)
2. CD-1 Rezoning: 215-229 East 13th Avenue
An application by JTA Development Consultants was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 215-229 East 13th Avenue from RM-4 (Residential) and R5-3
(Residential) to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the
development of a 21-storey mixed-use building containing 193 rental units,
with 20% of the residential floor area for below-market rental units, and
commercial space on the ground floor. A floor space ratio (FSR) of 6.8 and a
height of 66.8 m (219 ft.), with additional height for rooftop amenity space, are
proposed.
The General Manager, Planning Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 5
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to the Public Hearing and before the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• one piece of correspondence in support of the application;
• 16 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• one piece of correspondence dealing with other aspects of the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation
Applicant Comments
The applicant team provided opening comments and responded to questions.
Speakers
The Chair called three times for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
• Stephen Bohus
• Lewis N Villegas
• Ruth Cherry
• Stanley Lee
• James Lloyd
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:31 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
The Applicant team provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 6
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT the application by JTA Development Consultants, on behalf of Glen
Gordon Holdings Ltd., the registered owners of the lands located at:
• 215-217 East 13th Avenue [PID 015-613-071; Lot 18, Except the East 25
Feet, Block 114 District Lot 301 Plan 187]; and
• 229 East 13th Avenue [Lots 16, 17 and the East 25 Feet of Lot 18, all of
Block 114 District Lot 301 Plan 187; PIDs 007-465-904, 007-465-939, and
007-529-635 respectively];
to rezone the lands from RM-4 (Residential) District and R5-3 (Residential)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to change the maximum
floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.75 and 6.8 respectively to 6.8 and the maximum
building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) and 84.0 m (276 ft.) respectively to 66.8 m
(219 ft.) with additional height for the rooftop amenity, to permit the development
of a 21-storey mixed-use building containing 193 rental housing units, of which
20% of the residential floor area will be secured as below-market rental units,
with commercial space on the ground floor, generally as presented in the
Referral Report dated October 21, 2025, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 215-229 East
13th Avenue”, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft CD-1 by-law, prepared for the Public Hearing in
accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted report, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Studio One Architecture Inc., received
January 10, 2024, and supplemental plans received June 25, 2025;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated October 21, 2025,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 215-229 East 13th Avenue”, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for
enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services,
and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the application to amend the Sign
By-law to establish regulations for the new CD-1, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Referral Report dated October 21, 2025, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning: 215-229 East 13th Avenue”, be approved.
D. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended to include the CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 7
Report dated October 21, 2025, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 215-229 East 13th
Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
E. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City, and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11187)
(Councillors Bligh and Orr absent for the vote)
3. Zoning and Development By-law Amendment to Extend the Term of
Development Permits for Temporary Modular Housing
An application by the General Managers of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and Arts,
Culture and Community Services was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to extend the term of
development permits for temporary modular housing (TMH). Under current
zoning, a development permit for TMH is limited to a maximum of five years
and can be extended for up to an additional five years (for a maximum of ten
years) by the Director of Planning. Under the amendment, staff are proposing
to extend the term of the development permit to a maximum of 20 years to
extend the use of existing sites pending redevelopment. The proposed
amendment affects lands where TMH can be authorized under the Zoning and
Development By-law. This does not include lands zoned under the R1-1,
RT-1, RT-4, RT-4A, RT-7, RT-9, RT-10, or RT-11 districts and any other
district that permits single detached house but does not permit multiple
dwelling.
The General Manager, Planning Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 8
Summary of Correspondence
Two pieces of correspondence in support of the application was received since referral to the
Public Hearing and before the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services provided a presentation and along with staff
from Non-Market Housing Development and Operations and Real Estate, Environment and
Facilities Management, responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
None.
Speakers
The Chair called three times for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Djaka Blais
• Byron Slack
• Peter Dowdy
• Jesús Lozano-Villarreal
• Sam
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:30 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
The applicant provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
None.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the application to amend the Zoning and
Development By-law to permit the term of development permits for Temporary
Modular Housing to be a maximum of 20 years, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Referral Report dated October 21, 2025, entitled “Zoning and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 9
Development By-law Amendment to Extend the Term of Development Permits
for Temporary Modular Housing”.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
an amendment to the Zoning and Development By-law generally in accordance
with Appendix A of the Referral Report dated October 21, 2025, entitled “Zoning
and Development By-law Amendment to Extend the Term of Development
Permits for Temporary Modular Housing”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11188)
4. CD-1 Rezoning: 1150 Barclay Street
An application by PC Urban Barclay Holdings Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1150 Barclay Street from RM-5B (Residential) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
20-storey mixed-use building containing 152 rental units, with 20% of the
residential floor area for below-market rental units, and commercial space on
the ground floor. A floor space ratio (FSR) of 9.15 and a height of 61.55 m
(202 ft.), are proposed.
The General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability does not recommend
approval of the application.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to the Public Hearing and before the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 51 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 13 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
The General Manager from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and staff from Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
The Applicant Team provided a presentation and responded to questions.
Speakers
The Chair called three times for speakers for and against the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 10
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Allison Silgardo
• Claudine Matio
• Matthew Thiesen
• Danna Garcia
• Lan Yook
• Spencer Purdy
• Timothy Welsh
• Tyler Johnson
• Rick Fitzgerald
• Ryan Martin
• Jacqui McMullen
• Sebastian
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT under Section 2.8(c) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
10 pm in order to complete hearing from speakers and close the speakers list and
receipt of public comments, hear closing comments by the applicant and by staff and
Council questions of staff following staff closing comments;
FURTHER THAT Council refer debate and decision to the Council meeting on Tuesday,
December 9, 2025, to be held in the Council Chamber and electronically, as Unfinished
Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:15 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
The Applicant Team provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
The General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided closing comments
and along with staff from Planning, Urban Desing and Sustainability responded to additional
questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, December 4, 2025 11
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:23 pm.
* * * * *