REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 28, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
November 28, 2017, at 9:38 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Janice MacKenzie, City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
Mayor Robertson acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territories of the
Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh.
CONDOLENCES – Mel Tobias
Mayor Robertson expressed condolences to the family, friends, and colleagues of Mel Tobias,
and noted his many contributions to making Vancouver a more welcoming and inclusive place
and for fostering a multitude of intercultural and intergenerational connections that have
become his enduring legacy.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being
considered for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another
position appointed by the city;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the
Council considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests
of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an
activity, work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of
the Council, could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they
were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – November 14, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of November 14, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 3
2. Public Hearing – November 14, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of November 14, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Regular Council (City Finance and Services) – November 15, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting of November 15, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council adopt Administrative Reports 1 to 3, and 5 to 8, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Housing Vancouver Strategy (2018 - 2027) and 3-Year Action Plan (2018 - 2020)
November 15, 2017
Mayor Robertson noted requests to speak to this item had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council receive the presentation regarding “Housing Vancouver Strategy -
(2018 - 2027) and 3-Year Action Plan (2018 - 2020)”, and refer the related Policy
Report dated November 15, 2017, entitled “Housing Vancouver Strategy (2018 - 2027)
and 3-Year Action Plan (2018-2020)”, to the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, in order to hear from
speakers.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 4
FURTHER THAT this item begins at 9:30 am and continue until 2 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02367)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
Gil Kelley, General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with
Dan Garrison, Assistant Director - Housing Policy, and Edna Cho, Planner, Housing Policy,
presented the above-noted report.
Mr. Kelley, Mr. Garrison and Ms. Cho, along with Kaya Krishna, General Manager,
Development, Buildings and Licensing, and Abi Bond, Director of Housing Policy and Projects,
and the City Manager, responded to questions.
2. Implementation Update – Healthy City Action Plan (2015-2018)
November 16, 2017
Mayor Robertson noted requests to speak to this item had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council receive the presentation regarding “Implementation Update – Healthy
City Action Plan (2015-2018)”, and refer the related Administrative Report dated
November 16, 2017, entitled “Implementation Update – Healthy City Action Plan
(2015-2018)”, to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
Wednesday, November 29, 2017, in order to hear from speakers.
FURTHER THAT this item begin after 2 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02370)
Mary Clare Zak, Managing Director of Social Policy and Projects, along with Wes Regan, Social
Planner, Peter Marriott, Social Planning Analyst, Keltie Craig, Social Planner, and Dr. Reka
Gustafson, Medical Health Officer, Vancouver Coastal Health, presented the Administrative
Report dated November 16, 2017, entitled “Implementation Update – Healthy City Action Plan
(2015-2018)”.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12:17 pm and reconvened at 2:23 pm.
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 5
Ms. Zak, Mr. Regan, Mr. Marriott, and Ms. Craig, along with Dianna Hurford, Senior Planner,
responded to questions.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: 1523 Davie Street (Gabriola Mansion)
On November 14, 2017, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public Hearing on
the above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public comments,
referred discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on November 28, 2017, as
Unfinished Business.
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT the application by Ankenman Marchand Architects, on behalf of Mansion on
Davie Holdings Ltd., to amend CD-1(248) (Comprehensive Development) District
By-law No. 6564 for 1523 Davie Street (Gabriola Mansion) [Lots 13,14 and 15,
Block 49, District Lot 185, Plan 92; PIDs: 015-758-133, 015-758-141 and 015-758-
168 respectively] to increase the maximum floor space ratio from 0.35 to 0.87 to
allow for the conversion and expansion of the existing heritage building into 16
rental dwelling units and the construction of four rental infill townhouses in the
northeast corner of the site along the lane, generally as presented in Appendix A
of the Policy Report dated October 3, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment:
1523 Davie Street (Gabriola Mansion)”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Ankenman Marchand Architects, on
behalf of Mansion on Davie Holdings Ltd., and stamped “Received
Planning Department, April 28, 2017”, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of development when
approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 6
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the new town homes to achieve
a 2½-storey expression.
Note to Applicant: This will encourage an expression that is more
compatible and sympathetic to the existing heritage mansion.
2. Design development to explore ways to improve below-grade
livability for the basement dwelling units.
3. Design development to illustrate how the landscape plan will
provide common shared outdoor space (in lieu of private outdoor
space) for the rental units in the heritage mansion.
Sustainability
4. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016). This includes a minimum of
Built Green Gold, with 1 point for water efficiency and 1 point
for stormwater or rainwater management, and an energy score of
EnergGuide 84, along with registration and application for
certification of the project.
For the heritage portion of the project (Gabriola Mansion),
achievement of Built Green Gold does not apply, however
reasonable design efforts shall be made to improve green
performance towards that goal where appropriate, while
respecting heritage aspirations and promoting heritage retention.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the Built Green Checklist, must be
incorporated into the drawing submission. A letter from a green
building professional must confirm that the proposed strategy
aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration must be provided with the application and the
project registration number incorporated into the drawings.
Application for Certification will be required at a subsequent
stage.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 7
Landscape Design
5. Design development to explore opportunities to optimize lane
greening.
Note to Applicant: Refer to Engineering condition 17. Parking,
site access and circulation will need to be considered. Further
comments may result at the development permit stage, including
the adjustment of townhouse locations slightly to increase
planting opportunities at the lane.
6. Design development to enhance the historical landscape
treatment through the addition of long-lived legacy species trees
that are appropriate to the scale of the site and built form.
7. Design development to ensure the scale and layout of the
outdoor patio space to the south of the mansion is commensurate
with the use.
Note to Applicant: A written rationale should be provided at the
development permit stage.
8. Further scoping of construction access, site storage and phasing
to ensure the existing landscape is respected throughout the
construction process.
9. Incorporation of the principles of the Bird-Friendly Design
Guidelines for the protection, enhancement and creation of bird
habitat and to reduce potential threats to birds in the city.
Note to Applicant: This can be demonstrated on the landscape
plan, plant list and a written rationale. Refer to:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmen
tB.pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachmen
tC.pdf
10. Provide a detailed landscape plan illustrating soft and hard
landscape treatment.
Note to Applicant: Plant material should be clearly illustrated on
the landscape plan and keyed to a standard plant list. The
landscape plan should include all exterior hard and soft surface
elements (site furniture, gates, fences, surfaces, screens, walls),
the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or
proposed street trees, adjoining landscaping, grades and public
utilities, such as lamp posts, hydro poles and fire hydrants.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 8
11. Provide a tree plan.
Note to Applicant: Provide a tree plan that is separate from the
landscape plan and consistent with the survey and arborist
report. The scaled plan should be accurate and clearly illustrate
all trees to be removed and retained, including offsite trees and
any necessary tree protection barriers. Tree replacements can be
shown on the proposed landscape planting plans.
12. Provide a construction management plan/strategy and written
details to ensure the existing landscape is respected throughout
the construction process.
13. Where applicable, illustrate measures that support integrated
rainwater management.
Note to Applicant: Integrated rainwater management is an
emerging policy and should be considered in the landscape
strategy, to the greatest extent practicable. Staff note that tree
retention is highly co-beneficial to rainwater management
objectives. A brief written rationale should be provided to clarify
the rainwater management strategy, where applicable.
14. Provide large scale, dimensioned, landscape sections [typical]
through planted areas, with emphasis on new planters proposed
at the periphery of buildings.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree stem, canopy and root ball including the slab-
patio-planter relationship, the lane interface, common areas and
upper patios.
15. Provide high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas.
Note to Applicant: Provide a separate partial irrigation plan (one
sheet size only) that illustrates symbols for hose bib and stub-out
locations. There should be accompanying written notes on the
same plan and/or landscape plan describing the intent and/or
standards of irrigation. Irrigation lines should be avoided in tree
root protection zones.
Engineering
16. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 9
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
17. Design development to retain the existing residential permit
parking in the lane adjacent to the site.
Note to Applicant: This may involve the removal of the
secondary townhouse accesses, elimination of the proposed
landscaping on the City right-of-way, setback of the townhouses
to provide a walkway for townhouse access or other measures
that result in the existing lane permit parking being preserved.
18. Design development to provide for convenient access through the
site for the entry to the off-site parking at 1500 Pendrell Street.
19. Provide for Class B bicycle parking racks with minimum 24 in.
(0.6 m) clearance between bike rack and wall and minimum
36 in. (0.9 m) between the racks.
20. Provide a landscape plan that reflects the requirements of this
rezoning application to retain permit parking in the lane. A
separate application to the General Manager of Engineering
Services is required.
21. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provide the required disability parking to the satisfaction
of the Director of Planning in consultation with the
General Manager of Engineering Services. Confirmation
that the parking provided off-site at 1500 Pendrell Street
includes the required disability parking space. If disability
parking is not available then it is to be provided on the
development site.
(ii) Provision of a stair-free access route for the Class A
bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: Stair-free access to accommodate all types of
bicycles such as chariots, trailers and tricycles.
22. Ensure the development’s sewer service is connected to the
existing sewers in the lane north of Davie Street.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 10
Housing
23. That the proposed unit mix for family units, 25% two-bedroom
and 20% three-bedroom units, be included in the Development
Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or the Development Permit Board provided
that it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed
to be suitable for families with children.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability,
the General Manager of Community Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the
sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for
the following:
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 13 to 15, all of Block 49, DL 185, Plan 92 to
create a single parcel.
2. Release of Indemnity Agreement 99335H (crossings) prior to
building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
rezoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for the
services are provided. No development permit for the site will be
issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of upgraded street lighting on all site frontages
to current standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 11
(ii) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing at the lane
entry south of Pendrell Street on the west side of Nicola
Street including replacement of both curb returns and
curb ramps should it be necessary.
(iii) Provision of countdown timers and pedestrian intersection
lighting for the traffic signal at the Davie and Cardero
streets intersection.
(iv) Removal of the existing driveway crossings adjacent the
site and replacement with standard curb and gutter and
concrete sidewalks.
Note to Applicant: Should the existing sidewalks adjacent
the site be significantly damaged during construction
activities, then the sidewalk is to be replaced to current
City standards with sidewalk widths and locations
determined at the sole discretion of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
(v) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
(vi) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading. The
developer is responsible for 100% of any water system
upgrading that may be required.
(vii) Provision of a report or management plan by a registered
professional demonstrating that post-development
stormwater run-off flowrate will be less than or equal to
pre-development site run-off during a 1 in 10 year storm.
Legal arrangements may be required to ensure on-going
operations of certain stormwater storage systems.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 12
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from
the existing overhead electrical network on the street
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical plant.
Please confirm that this space has been allocated and agreement
between both parties has been met.
5. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right-of-way.
Heritage
6. That the new Heritage Designation By-law be brought forward for
enactment by Council which, in addition to the exterior and
structure already protected, also protects certain interior
features, including the entry lobby area and fireplace, amenity
billiards room, and staircase to the upper floor, inclusive of all
materials and finishes therein.
Note to Applicant: Ensure that the consolidation of the lots
occurs only after the heritage designation by-law is enacted and
notice of the designation is put on title.
7. That the property owner enter into a Heritage Restoration
Covenant, to be registered on title to the lands, which will
include a Statutory Right of Way in favour of the City to ensure
public access to the interior heritage features of the Gabriola
Mansion for at least one day per year, all to the satisfaction of
the Director of Legal Services and the Director of Planning.
Housing
8. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement and section 219 Covenant securing all
20 residential units as rental housing for 60 years or the life of
the building, whichever is greater and subject to the following
additional conditions in respect of those units:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 13
(i) That such units may not be subdivided by deposit of a
strata plan;
(ii) That none of such units may be separately sold;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law, with
enactment pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter
and a Section 219 Covenant.
Environmental Contamination
9. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the
Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 14
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a
by-law to designate certain interior, exterior and landscaping features (the
“heritage features”) of the Gabriola Mansion and surrounding lands as protected
heritage property, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
October 3, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 1523 Davie Street (Gabriola
Mansion)”.
C. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated October 3, 2017 entitled
“CD-1 Text Amendment: 1523 Davie Street (Gabriola Mansion)”, the Director of
Legal Services be instructed to prepare a by-law pursuant to Section 565.2 of
the Vancouver Charter authorizing the City to enter into a Housing Agreement
with the owner of the site to secure 20 dwelling units as rental, on such terms
and conditions as are described further in the above-noted report and are
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of
Community Services.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02371)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 15
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. Capital Grant for 2720 East 48th Avenue (Fair Haven United Church Homes) for
Social Housing
November 6, 2017
A. THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Community Services to enter
into an agreement (the “Grant Agreement”) with Fair Haven United Church
Homes (“Fair Haven”) to set out the conditions of the capital grant toward
construction of 139 new social housing units for seniors at 2720 East 48th
Avenue (PID: 009-361-332; Lot 3, Block 11, North East ¼ of District Lot 336,
Plan 10606). The Grant Agreement will be to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services, and will
state that the City will provide a grant of $1,390,000 to Fair Haven for the
social housing units subject to the following:
• execution of the Grant Agreement with terms and conditions as outlined
in the Administrative Report dated November 6, 2017, entitled “Capital
Grant for 2720 East 48th Avenue (Fair Haven United Church Homes) for
Social Housing”;
• registration of the Housing Agreement;
• all funding/financing sources secured;
• building permit issuance;
• provision of an updated pro-forma which reflects final project costs
(capital and operating), financing rates, target affordability and rent
levels;
• agreement to reinvest any operating surplus, after adequate operating
reserve and replacement reserve costs are accounted for, to enhance
affordability in the project.
B. THAT upon approval of A above, Council approve a capital grant of $1,390,000
($10,000 per unit) to Fair Haven United Church Homes to support the
construction of 139 units of social housing at 2720 East 48th Avenue. The
source of funding for the capital grant is the Capital Budget for Non-market
Rental Housing (Social Housing). Payment of the grant is anticipated for
June 2018 (issuance of building permit), and the corresponding annual
expenditure budget will be established as part of the quarterly capital budget
adjustment process.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare an amendment to
the Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by-law enacted pursuant
to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter to secure the housing affordability
offered by Fair Haven (the applicant) and described in the body of the
Administrative Report dated November 6, 2017, entitled “Capital Grant for
2720 East 48th Avenue (Fair Haven United Church Homes) for Social Housing”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
B BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02372)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 16
2. Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA Renewals and Expansion - 2018
November 7, 2017
Cambie Village BIA Renewal:
A1. THAT Council confirm the Cambie Village Business Association as
sponsor for the Cambie Village BIA.
A2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to
re-establish (renew) the Cambie Village BIA, for a further term (7 years)
commencing April 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Cambie Village
Business Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
A3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area
(outlined in Appendix A1 of the Administrative Report dated
November 7, 2017, entitled “Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA
Renewals and Expansion – 2018”), of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
A4. THAT Council approve a 7-year (2018-2025) funding-ceiling of
$3,339,482 for the Cambie Village BIA, subject to Council approval of
the renewal.
Cambie Village BIA Expansion:
B1. THAT Council approve the Cambie Village Business Association as
sponsor for the Cambie Village Expansion BIA.
B2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council initiative to
establish the Cambie Village Expansion BIA, for a 7-year term
commencing April 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Cambie Village
Business Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
B3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area
(outlined in Appendix B1 of the Administrative Report dated
November 7, 2017, entitled “Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA
Renewals and Expansion – 2018”), of the proposed BIA expansion and
levy.
B4. THAT Council approve a 7-year (2018-2025) funding-ceiling of
$2,200,000 for the Cambie Village Expansion BIA, subject to Council
approval of the expansion.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 17
Collingwood BIA Renewal:
C1. THAT Council confirm the Collingwood Business Improvement
Association as sponsor for the Collingwood BIA.
C2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to
re-establish (renew) the Collingwood BIA, for a further term (7 years)
commencing April 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Collingwood
Business Improvement Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
C3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area
(outlined in Appendix C1 of the Administrative Report dated
November 7, 2017, entitled “Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA
Renewals and Expansion – 2018”), of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
C4. THAT Council approve a 7-year (2018-2025) funding-ceiling of
$1,593,187 for the Collingwood BIA, subject to Council approval of the
renewal.
Dunbar Village BIA Renewal:
D1. THAT Council confirm the Dunbar Village Business Association as sponsor
for the Dunbar Village BIA.
D2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to
re-establish (renew) the Dunbar Village BIA, for a further term (5 years)
commencing April 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Dunbar Village
Business Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
D3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area
(outlined in Appendix D1 of the Administrative Report dated
November 7, 2017, entitled “Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA
Renewals and Expansion – 2018”), of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
D4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2018-2023) funding-ceiling of $950,000
for the Dunbar Village BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.
Hastings North BIA Renewal:
E1. THAT Council confirm the Hastings North Business Improvement
Association as sponsor for the Hastings North BIA.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 18
E2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to
re-establish (renew) the Hastings North BIA, for a further term (7 years)
commencing April 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Hastings North
Business Improvement Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
E3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area
(outlined in Appendix E1 of the Administrative Report dated
November 7, 2017, entitled “Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA
Renewals and Expansion – 2018”), of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
E4. THAT Council approve a 7-year (2018-2025) funding-ceiling of
$2,820,000 for the Hastings North BIA, subject to Council approval of
the renewal.
Hastings North Expansion BIA Renewal:
F1. THAT Council confirm the Hastings North Business Improvement
Association as sponsor for the Hastings North Expansion BIA.
F2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to
re-establish (renew) the Hastings North Expansion BIA, for a further
term (7 years) commencing April 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Hastings North
Business Improvement Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
F3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area
(outlined in Appendix F1 of the Administrative Report dated
November 7, 2017, entitled “Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA
Renewals and Expansion – 2018”), of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
F4. THAT Council approve a 7-year (2018-2025) funding-ceiling of
$1,180,000 for the Hastings North Expansion BIA, subject to Council
approval of the renewal.
Robson Street BIA Renewal:
G1. THAT Council confirm the Robson Street Business Association as sponsor
for the Robson Street BIA.
G2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to
re-establish (renew) the Robson Street BIA, for a further term (5 years)
commencing April 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Robson Street
Business Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 19
G3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area
(outlined in Appendix G1 of the Administrative Report dated
November 7, 2017, entitled “Approval of Council Initiatives – BIA
Renewals and Expansion – 2018”), of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
G4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2018-2023) funding-ceiling of
$3,280,067 for the Robson Street BIA, subject to Council approval of the
renewal.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02373)
3. 2018-2021 Artist Studio Award Program
November 9, 2017
A. THAT Council approve the following seven artists being recommended under
the Artist Studio Award program for the 2018 – 2021 term, as tenants (the
“Tenants”) of the seven City-owned or City-leased artist studios (collectively,
the “Premises” as described in B below):
i. Studio 1 awarded to: Sebnem Ozpeta, visual artist;
ii. Studio 2 awarded to: Cole Schmidt, guitarist/composer/curator;
iii. Studio 3 awarded to: Anne Riley, multidisciplinary artist;
iv. Studio 4 awarded to: Richard Heikkilä-Sawan, visual artist;
v. Studio 5 awarded to: Carol Shillibeer, poet and artist;
vi. Studio 6 awarded to: Iona Dan (Paul)/Tsatsu Stalqayu (Coastal Wolf
Pack), traditional Coast Salish multidisciplinary artist;
vii. Studio 7 awarded to: Carlos Colín, visual artist.
B. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute a lease or sublease agreement (each a “Lease” and collectively, the
“Leases”) with each of the seven Tenants on the terms and conditions generally
set out in the Summary of Lease Terms attached as Appendix C of the
Administrative Report dated November 9, 2017, entitled “2018-2021 Artist
Studio Award Program”, and upon such other terms and conditions as are
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services in consultation with the Director
of Real Estate Services and the Managing Director of Cultural Services:
Term for all seven studios: approximately 3 years starting in Spring 2018.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 20
i. Studio 1 (City-owned live-work unit): having a civic address of #303-272
East 4th Avenue, and a legal description of PID: 023-105-445; Strata Lot
17, District Lot 200A, Group 1 New Westminster District, Strata Plan
LMS2013;
ii. Studio 2 (City-leased live-work unit): having a civic address of #367-485
West 8th Avenue, and a legal description of PID: 027-526-143; Strata Lot
67, District Lot 302, Group 1 New Westminster District, Strata Plan
BCS2922;
iii. Studio 3 (City-owned live-work unit): having a civic address of
1202 East Pender Street, and a legal description of PID: 024-375-047;
Strata Lot 6, District Lot 182, Group 1 New Westminster District, Strata
Plan LMS3800;
iv. Studio 4 (City-owned live-work unit): having a civic address of
#102-8031 Nunavut Lane, and a legal description of PID: 029-767-661;
Air Space Parcel 2, District Lot 323, Group 1 New Westminster District,
Air Space Plan EPP50837;
v. Studio 5 (City-owned live-work unit): having a civic address of
#101-8031 Nunavut Lane, and a legal description of PID: 029-767-661;
Air Space Parcel 2, District Lot 323, Group 1 New Westminster District,
Air Space Plan EPP50837;
vi. Studio 6 (City-owned work-only studio): having a civic address of
1571 West 6th Avenue, and a legal description of PID: 029-153-522; Air
Space Parcel 1, District Lot 526, Group 1 New Westminster District, Air
Space Plan EPP32021;
vii. Studio 7 (City-owned work-only studio): having a civic address of
1573 West 6th Avenue, and a legal description of PID: 029-153-522; Air
Space Parcel 1, District Lot 526, Group 1 New Westminster District, Air
Space Plan EPP32021.
As the rent under the Leases for the Premises will be below the applicable
market rate and includes rent-in-lieu of property taxes, B constitutes a grant
valued at approximately $132,625 per annum for the Premises based on the
first year of the term, as shown in Appendix D of the above-noted report.
C. THAT Council approve the re-tenanting of any studio that becomes vacant for
an extended period during the occupancy term to another eligible artist
according to the prioritized ranking of short-listed artists identified through the
2018 – 2021 Artist Studio Award peer review assessment process, and as
approved by the Managing Director of Cultural Services, on the same terms and
conditions as approved for the original artist recommended as the tenant of
such studio, as provided for in the Administrative Report dated
November 9, 2017, entitled “2018-2021 Artist Studio Award Program”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 21
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s
adoption of these A to C above unless and until all legal documentation has
been executed and delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
B AND C BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02374)
4. CAC Policy Update: Simplifying CACs on New Rental Housing and Commercial
Development
November 14, 2017
Chris Clibbon, Planner, City-Wide and Regional Planning, provided a presentation regarding
the Administrative Report dated November 14, 2017, entitled “CAC Policy Update: Simplifying
CACs on New Rental Housing and Commercial Development”, and responded to questions.
Mayor Robertson noted requests to speak to this item had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Bremner
THAT the Administrative Report dated November 14, 2017, entitled “CAC Policy
Update: Simplifying CACs on New Rental Housing and Commercial Development”, be
referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
Wednesday, November 29, 2017, at 9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02376)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
5. Acquisition of Social Housing at 1488 Robson Street
November 14, 2017
THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services and the Director of
Legal Services to negotiate and execute all documents which they consider
appropriate in connection with the purchase, for a nominal purchase price, from
the owner / developer of a mixed use building at 1488 Robson Street (1488 Robson
Street Holdings Ltd.), of an air space parcel (the “Social Housing Air Space Parcel”)
whereby:
i. the Social Housing Air Space Parcel will contain approximately 7325 m2
(78,855 sq. ft.) of residential floor area and no fewer than 82 units of Social
Housing (the “Social Housing Units”) and associated storage lockers, parking
and bike storage;
ii. the City of Vancouver (the “City”), as owner of the Social Housing Air Space
Parcel, will be granted the appropriate rights and be subject to the
appropriate obligations applicable to the ownership and operation of the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 22
Social Housing Air Space Parcel, including reciprocal easements and
indemnities, repair and maintenance, cost sharing, insurance and other
applicable legal obligations;
iii. the construction and transfer to the City of the Social Housing Air Space
Parcel will be secured in a Construction and Transfer Agreement to be
registered against title to the lands (Lot 1 Block 44 District Lot 185 Plan
15341) (the “Lands”) in accordance with DP-2016-00376 as conditionally
approved by the Development Permit Board on June 12, 2017, pursuant to
the C-6 District Schedule. Repo
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02377)
6. Amendments to Business Improvement Area (BIA) Approvals Policy and Model Grant
Allocation By-law
November 6, 2017
A. THAT Council adopt a new policy with respect to approval of BIA Council
Initiatives generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Administrative
Report dated November 6, 2017, entitled “Amendments to Business
Improvement Area (BIA) Approvals Policy and Model Grant Allocation By-law”.
B. THAT the Model BIA Grant Allocation By-law be amended to:
• reduce the required notification period for change or cancellation of BIA
commercial general liability insurance;
• permit means other than mail for BIA society general meeting
notifications to affected property owners; and
• adjust the quorum requirements for BIA society general meetings.
generally as set out in Appendix B, paragraph B, of the Administrative Report
dated November 6, 2017, entitled “Amendments to Business Improvement Area
(BIA) Approvals Policy and Model Grant Allocation By-law”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02379)
7. 2018 Land Assessment Averaging: Notice to BC Assessment Authority
November 21, 2017
A. THAT, pursuant to Section 374.4 (4b) of the Vancouver Charter, the City Clerk
be instructed to notify the BC Assessment Authority (“BC Assessment”), before
January 1, 2018, of Vancouver City Council’s intent to consider the adoption of
targeted land assessment averaging for the purpose of property tax calculations
for 2018.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 23
It should be noted that this notice of intent is revocable should Council, at a
later date, decide not to proceed with this mechanism.
B. THAT the Director of Finance be instructed to provide the required two weeks’
notice to the public in advance of Council’s consideration of the use of
targeted land assessment averaging and, before March 31, 2018, report on the
projected taxation impacts of the program based on the assessed values
provided by BC Assessment in the 2018 Completed Roll.
C. THAT the Area Assessor for Vancouver be invited to address Council on the 2018
assessment trends.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02380)
8. Business Licence/Chauffeur's Permit Appeal Hearing Panels - January to June 2018
November 14, 2017
THAT Council delegate the holding of hearings under Section 275 or 278, or appeals
under Sections 277 of the Vancouver Charter or under Section 36(7) of the Motor
Vehicle Act, for the those hearing dates in 2018 designated by Council to a panel of
three Council Members as follows:
January 23 – 9:30 am
Councillor De Genova - Chair
Councillor Ball
Councillor Deal
Councillor Jang – Alternate
January 24 – 9:30 am
Councillor Reimer – Chair
Councillor Bremner
Councillor Stevenson
Councillor Carr – Alternate
February 13 – 9:30 am
Councillor Affleck – Chair
Councillor Carr
Councillor Louie
Councillor Ball – Alternate

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 24
February 15 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Jang – Chair
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Stevenson
Councillor Bremner – Alternate
February 28 – 9:30 am
Councillor Ball – Chair
Councillor Carr
Councillor Louie
Councillor Affleck – Alternate
March 15 – 9:30 am
Councillor Bremner – Chair
Councillor Affleck
Councillor Jang
Councillor De Genova – Alternate
April 24 – 9:30 am
Councillor Reimer – Chair
Councillor Ball
Councillor Deal
Councillor Stevenson – Alternate
April 25 – 9:30 am
Councillor Carr – Chair
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Reimer
Councillor Louie – Alternate
May 22 – 9:30 am
Councillor Deal – Chair
Councillor Affleck
Councillor Jang
Councillor Bremner – Alternate
May 23 – 9:30 am
Councillor Louie – Chair
Councillor Ball
Councillor Carr
Councillor Reimer – Alternate

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 25
June 12 – 9:30 am
Councillor Stevenson – Chair
Councillor Bremner
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Jang – Alternate
June 13 – 9:30 am
Councillor Affleck – Chair
Councillor Deal
Councillor Louie
Councillor Reimer – Alternate
Should any of the above members of Council be unable to attend the hearings, the hearings
and the power to make a Council decision in relation to those hearings will be delegated to
the remaining two Councillors and alternate Councillor.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02381)
9. Supporting Small Businesses Through Provincial Tax Reform - WITHDRAWN
10. Proposed Amendment to Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency Ltd. (VAHA)
Governance Structure
October 3, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT Council approve the creation of the Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency
(VAHA) Oversight Committee comprised of City of Vancouver senior
management, to govern all aspects of VAHA on behalf of the City in its capacity
as sole shareholder of VAHA, all as further described in the Administrative
Report dated October 3, 2017, entitled “Proposed Amendment to Vancouver
Affordable Housing Agency Ltd. (VAHA) Governance Structure”.
B. THAT Council authorize the dissolution of the current Vancouver Affordable
Housing Agency (VAHA) board of directors and replacement with a sole
director.
C. THAT Council authorize the appointment of the General Manager of Finance,
Risk and Supply Chain as the sole director of Vancouver Affordable Housing
Agency’s (VAHA’s) board of directors.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 26
D. THAT Council authorize Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency’s (VAHA’s) sole
director to execute routine annual corporate filings and other documents on
behalf of the City in its capacity as sole shareholder of VAHA.
E. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to prepare, execute and
file with the corporate registrar all documents necessary to give effect to B and
C above.
F. THAT Council approve the creation of a Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency
(VAHA) Expert Advisory Panel comprised of industry experts to provide
confidential, objective and expert advice to the VAHA Oversight Committee, all
as further described in the Administrative Report dated October 3, 2017,
entitled “Proposed Amendment to Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency Ltd.
(VAHA) Governance Structure”, with members of the panel to be selected by
the City Manager from time to time upon the recommendations of the VAHA
Oversight Committee and with terms of reference, including appropriate
conflicts of interest provisions, to be approved by the VAHA Oversight
Committee and the Director of Legal Services.
G. THAT Council approve the creation of a City of Vancouver (COV): Vancouver
Affordable Housing Agency (VAHA) Working Group, that will help to align COV
and VAHA initiatives and will provide a forum for discussion ahead of
submitting recommendations to the VAHA Oversight Committee.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02357)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and Bremner opposed)
(Councillors De Genova and Stevenson absent for the vote)
OTHER REPORTS
1. Naming of West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza
October 31, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the existing lane located between Alberni Street and Robson Street which
runs from Burrard Street to west of Bute Street, and from Jervis Street to
Chilco Street, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix A to the Other
Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Eihu Lane”.
B. THAT the existing lane located between Robson Street and Haro Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Lagoon Drive, as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix B to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Rosemary
Brown Lane”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 27
C. THAT the existing lane located between Haro Street and Barclay Street which
runs from Smithe Street to west of Cardero Street, and from Denman Street to
Lagoon Drive, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix C to the Other
Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Stovold Lane”.
D. THAT the existing lane located between Barclay Street and Nelson Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Stanley Park, as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix D to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “ted northe
Lane”.
E. THAT the existing lane located between Comox Street and Pendrell Street
which runs from Thurlow Street to Cardero Street, and from Bidwell Street to
Stanley Park, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix E to the Other
Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Jepson-Young Lane”.
F. THAT the existing lane located between Pendrell Street and Davie Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Denman Street, as shown on the graphic attached
as Appendix F to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “See-em-ia
Lane”.
G. THAT the existing lane located between Davie Street and Burnaby Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Denman Street, as shown on the graphic attached
as Appendix G to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming
of West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Pantages
Lane”.
H. THAT the existing lane located between Harwood Street and Beach
Avenue/Pacific Street which runs from Burrard Street to Cardero Street, as
shown on the graphic attached as Appendix H to the Other Report dated
October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New Temporary City
Hall Plaza”, be named as “Jung Lane”.
I. THAT the existing lane located between Nelson and Comox Streets which runs
from Burrard Street to Thurlow Street, from Bute Street to Nicola Street, from
Bidwell Street to west of Bidwell Street, and from Denman Street to Stanley
Park, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix I to the Other Report
dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Henshaw Lane”, as it is an extension
of the existing lane.
J. THAT the new temporary plaza at City Hall, located on the site previously
occupied by the East Wing of City Hall, be named “Gutteridge Plaza”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 28
K. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
appropriate amendments to the Street Name By-law.
amended
Councillor Reimer proposed an amendment to add the name “Vivian” before “Jung Lane”, in
H above. However, at the advice of staff, she withdrew the amendment.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the name “Vivian” be inserted before the name “Jung Lane”, in H, to read:
THAT the existing lane located between Harwood Street and Beach
Avenue/Pacific Street which runs from Burrard Street to Cardero Street, as
shown on the graphic attached as Appendix H, be named as “Vivian Jung
Lane”.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the amendment be struck and replaced with the following:
THAT H be referred back to the Civic Asset Naming Committee to ensure the
commemoration is clearly for Vivian Jung.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02358)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
THAT E be referred back to the Civic Asset Naming Committee for further discussion
and to consult the parents of Peter Jepson-Young.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02360)
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote)
The amendments have carried unanimously, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02361).

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 29
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT the existing lane located between Alberni Street and Robson Street which
runs from Burrard Street to west of Bute Street, and from Jervis Street to
Chilco Street, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix A to the Other
Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Eihu Lane”.
B. THAT the existing lane located between Robson Street and Haro Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Lagoon Drive, as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix B to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Rosemary
Brown Lane”.
C. THAT the existing lane located between Haro Street and Barclay Street which
runs from Smithe Street to west of Cardero Street, and from Denman Street to
Lagoon Drive, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix C to the Other
Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Stovold Lane”.
D. THAT the existing lane located between Barclay Street and Nelson Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Stanley Park, as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix D to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “ted northe
Lane”.
E. THAT the recommendation to name the existing lane located between Comox
Street and Pendrell Street which runs from Thurlow Street to Cardero Street,
and from Bidwell Street to Stanley Park, as shown on the graphic attached as
Appendix E to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Jepson-
Young Lane”, be referred back to the Civic Asset naming Committee for further
discussion and to consult the parents of Peter Jepson-Young.
F. THAT the existing lane located between Pendrell Street and Davie Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Denman Street, as shown on the graphic attached
as Appendix F to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of
West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “See-em-ia
Lane”.
G. THAT the existing lane located between Davie Street and Burnaby Street which
runs from Burrard Street to Denman Street, as shown on the graphic attached
as Appendix G to the Other Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming
of West End Lanes and New Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Pantages
Lane”.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 30
H. THAT the recommendation to name the existing lane located between Harwood
Street and Beach Avenue/Pacific Street which runs from Burrard Street to
Cardero Street, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix H to the Other
Report dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Jung Lane”, be referred back to the
Civic Asset naming Committee to ensure the commemoration is clearly for
Vivian Jung.
I. THAT the existing lane located between Nelson and Comox Streets which runs
from Burrard Street to Thurlow Street, from Bute Street to Nicola Street, from
Bidwell Street to west of Bidwell Street, and from Denman Street to Stanley
Park, as shown on the graphic attached as Appendix I to the Other Report
dated October 31, 2017, entitled “Naming of West End Lanes and New
Temporary City Hall Plaza”, be named as “Henshaw Lane”, as it is an extension
of the existing lane.
J. THAT the new temporary plaza at City Hall, located on the site previously
occupied by the East Wing of City Hall, be named “Gutteridge Plaza”.
K. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
appropriate amendments to the Street Name By-law.
BY-LAWS
The Mayor noted Councillor Bremner had previously declared Conflict of Interest related to
By-laws 13 to 15, and Councillor Stevenson had previously declared Conflict of Interest
related to By-law 21.
Councillor Bremner advised he had reviewed the proceedings of the meetings related to
by-law 23, and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 24 inclusive, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (2395-2469 Kingsway)
(By-law No. 11955)
2. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Districts Parking
requirements (CD-1 District Parking requirements 2395-2469 Kingsway)
(By-law No. 11956)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 31
3. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (2395-2469 Kingsway) (By-law No. 11957)
4. A By-law to amend Building By-law No. 10908 regarding Fees for 2018
(By-law No. 11958)
5. A By-law to amend Electrical By-law No. 5563 Regarding Fees for 2018
(By-law No. 11959)
6. A By-law to amend Gas Fitting By-law No. 3507 Regarding Fees for 2018
(By-law No. 11960)
7. A By-law to amend Miscellaneous Fees By-law No. 5664 Regarding Fees for 2018
(By-law No. 11961)
8. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 Regarding Fees for 2018
(By-law No. 11962)
9. A By-law to amend Protection of Trees By-law No. 9958 Regarding Fees for 2018
(By-law No. 11963)
10. A By-law to amend Secondary Suite Inspection Fee By-law No. 6553 Regarding Fees for
2018 (By-law No. 11964)
11. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 Regarding Fees for 2018
(By-law No. 11965)
12. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development Fee By-law No. 5585 Regarding Fees for
2018 (By-law No. 11966)
13. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (530 Drake Street)
(By-law No. 11967)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
14. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Districts Parking
requirements (CD-1 District Parking requirements 530 Drake Street) (By-law No. 11968)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
15. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (530 Drake Street- Covenant House)
(By-law No. 11969)
(Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
16. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (801 Pacific Street)
(By-law No. 11970)
17. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Districts Parking
requirements (CD-1 District Parking requirements 801 Pacific Street)
(By-law No. 11971)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 32
18. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (801 Pacific Street) (By-law No. 11972)
(Mayor Robertson ineligible for the vote)
19. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (1775 West
16th Avenue- Elson Residence, 1785 West 16th Avenue - Bayne Residence, 1795 West
16th Avenue - Maguire Residence) (By-law No. 11973)
20. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (1920 South
West Marine Drive - Casa Mia) (By-law No. 11974)
21. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (2205 West
45th Avenue Ryerson United Church) (By-law No. 11975)
(Councillor Stevenson ineligible for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
22. A By-law to authorize the amendment of a Housing Agreement authorized by By-Law
No. 10560 (1030 Denman Street) (By-law No. 11976)
23. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to CD-1
(1037 West King Edward Avenue) (By-law No. 11977)
(Mayor Robertson ineligible for the vote)
24. A By-law to amend the by-law Notice Enforcement By-law No. 10201 to allow for the
Enforcement of the Vacancy Tax By-law (By-law No. 11978)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
Councillor Bremner declared a conflict of interest related to Administrative Motion 2, since
his private sector employer is helping the applicant with the application.
1. Approval of Form of Development – 1030 Denman Street (Coast Plaza Hotel)
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1030 Denman
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2016-00193, prepared by Jeff Ashwell of DA Architects and Planners, and stamped
“Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on May 26, 2017,
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design
changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of the
site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 33
2. Approval of Form of Development – 530 Drake Street (Covenant House)
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 530 Drake Street
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2017-00249, prepared by Wanda Felts of NSDA Architects, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on February 28, 2017, provided
that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bremner ineligible for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
B. Motions on Notice
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Councillor Heather Deal be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons for
the Public Hearing to be held Tuesday, January 16, 2018, and any meetings to be held
Tuesday, January 23, 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02386)
2. Equitable Parental Leave at the City of Vancouver
Councillor De Genova declared Conflict of Interest on this matter as her husband works for
the Vancouver Police Department and is currently on parental leave. She left the room at
4:14 pm and did not return until the beginning of the next item.
The motion below contains amendments to the original Motion on Notice which were
accepted by the Council.
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor Affleck
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver has a long-standing commitment to gender equality and
has ratified several motions and policies in the interest of treating all persons
equally;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 34
2. Regardless of gender, new parents can secure Employment Insurance through
the Government of Canada for parental leave to care for their infant children;
3. The City of Vancouver’s current employment policy offers supplemental salary
and wages to biological birth mothers, but not to fathers or adoptive parents
who are employed by the City of Vancouver, including members of the
Vancouver Police Department and Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services;
4. Individuals who are not eligible for the current City of Vancouver supplemental
benefit include biological fathers, and adoptive parents of any gender. A
parent is eligible for supplemental wages or income for parental leave only if
the female parent gives birth to the infant;
5. In a situation where a birth mother and father are both employed by the City of
Vancouver, there are negative financial ramifications for the family if the
father of an infant chooses to take parental leave instead of the birth mother;
6. In a situation where there are two same-sex parents adopting a child, neither
are able to receive parental leave top-up.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council affirms its commitment to providing equal
supplemental benefits to all new parents employed by the City of Vancouver,
regardless of gender, who are eligible for parental leave by Federal
employment insurance standards, thereby allowing families greater flexibility
in the choice of who will provide primary care for their baby.
B. THAT staff report back to Council within 60 days on the steps necessary to
achieve this goal.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT recommendations A and B in the motion entitled “Equitable Parental Leave at
the City of Vancouver”, be referred to staff for advice and a report back in 60 days.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02362)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 35
3. Clarity and Transparency Around a Future Canada Line Station at 57th and Cambie
MOVED by Councillor Affleck
SECONDED by Councillor Ball
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is committed to openness and transparency and prides
itself on being at the forefront of efforts to increase access to information,
including establishing the first open data policy for a major city in Canada;
2. On July 25, 2017, Vancouver City Council unanimously approved the rezoning of
the Pearson Dogwood Lands (500-650 West 57th Avenue);
3. Council’s approval of the Pearson Dogwood rezoning commits the applicant to a
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) of $20,000,000 toward construction of
a future Canada Line station at 57th Avenue and Cambie Street;
4. The Conditions of Approval for the Pearson Dogwood rezoning include a note to
the applicant stating that, “Should the station not be attainable in the
long-term future, the financial contribution towards a future station would be
re-allocated to address the amenity priorities identified for Pearson Dogwood
and those in and around the Cambie Corridor consistent with the respective
public benefit strategies.”;
5. The Pearson Dogwood Policy Report presented to Council at the Tuesday,
June 27, 2017, Regular Council meeting states that City staff will seek similar
CAC contributions from future major project rezoning proposals adjacent to the
Pearson Dogwood site, while also pursuing opportunities and discussions with
TransLink and other key stakeholders, to pursue the potential to realize a
future station at 57th Avenue;
6. The Pearson Dogwood Policy Report presented to Council at the Tuesday,
June 27, 2017, Regular Council meeting states that the Pearson Dogwood site is
already considered to be “transit-oriented” with “existing transit access” and
is “within 800–1000 metres of existing Canada Line stations at 49th Avenue and
Marine Drive respectively, with frequent bus service along Cambie Street.”;
7. Following the Pearson Dogwood Lands Open House, which took place on
Tuesday, February 23, 2016, TransLink sent a letter (dated February 26, 2016)
to the City of Vancouver regarding the Potential for a new Canada Line Station
at 57th Avenue;
8. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter states that, based on TransLink staff’s
interactions with the public and “observation of materials” at the Pearson
Dogwood Lands Open House, TransLink staff became concerned about “the
extent of the public expectation that a new station will be built on the Canada
Line at 57th Avenue.”;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 36
9. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City states that a station at 57th
Avenue and Cambie is not in The Mayors' Council on Regional Transportation
2014 plan and that “TransLink’s long term plans do not include a new station at
this location.”;
10. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City identifies “more train cars and
upgrades and expansions to existing [Canada Line] stations” as the only Canada
Line investment priorities in The Mayors' Council on Regional Transportation
2014 plan, and that “a funding solution for the Mayors’ Plan will not change
that.”;
11. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City states that “Constructing a
new below grade station on operable tracks is unprecedented and presents
significant engineering challenges that increase the complexity of station
construction.”;
12. The Pearson Dogwood Policy Report presented to Council at the Tuesday,
June 27, 2017, Regular Council meeting acknowledges that a station at 57th
Avenue is “not considered a regional priority” and is considered to be “a longer
term possibility”, and that any future construction is “anticipated to be
technically complex and highly costly” due to the various challenges identified
by City staff and TransLink staff;
13. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City states that, if the City of
Vancouver wants to pursue a new Canada Line station at 57th Avenue at any
point prior to it becoming a priority for TransLink, “the station project would
require full funding from a third party” and that “Such funding would be
required to cover all costs, including (but not necessarily limited to)” all
capital costs – “including station construction, additional fleet to maintain
service hours to account for longer travel times, upgrades to train control and
power systems, and changes to system wayfinding” – as well as all operating
costs, all planning, engineering and implementation costs (including the cost of
maintaining service during construction), and all costs to amend various
agreements (e.g., with YVR and the Canada Line owner), and costs “associated
with service disruption or slower total travel times resulting from station
construction”;
14. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City states that the cost of an
“underground infill station on the Canada Line is not known” but references a
meeting with the City in 2014, at which time TransLink offered a “ballpark”
construction cost estimate of $90 million;
15. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City states that recent (i.e., 2016)
cost estimates for “underground stations for the Millennium Line extension on
the Broadway corridor are on the order of $100 million.”;
16. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City states that, “even if the [57th
Avenue] station is fully funded by a third party, the implementation timeline is

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 37
expected to be no less than ten years and may be prolonged” due to significant
engineering challenges that would increase the complexity of station
construction;
17. TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City includes a request that the
City “incorporate the contents of this [the TransLink] letter into the City’s
messaging during the Pearson Dogwood rezoning application process” and give
a copy of the letter to the “applicant / property owner”;
18. As recently as November 15, 2017, an article in the Vancouver Sun made
reference to future underground stations along the Canada Line at 33rd Avenue
and 57th Avenue, along with two future above ground stations in the City of
Richmond;
19. The November 15, 2017, Vancouver Sun article cites a cost of “about $27.8
million” for the above ground Canada Line station at Capstan Way in Richmond,
of which the City of Richmond has reportedly collected $19.36 million from
developers near the proposed station over the past six years in the form of
amenity contributions;
20. The City of Richmond has reportedly transferred $3.5 million to TransLink to
pay for design work for a new above ground Canada Line station at Capstan
Way.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to report back to
Council with a written memo within 30 days that responds to, but is not limited to, the
following questions:
i. Whether TransLink’s current position regarding the potential for a new Canada
Line station at 57th and Cambie differs from the position outlined in their
February 26, 2016, letter to the City – namely, that “TransLink’s long-term
plans do not include a station at this location”;
ii. What the timeframe is for determining that a new Canada Line station at 57th
and Cambie is not attainable (should that be the case) such that the
Community Amenity Contribution(s) towards the station’s cost would be
re-allocated to address other amenity priorities identified for Pearson Dogwood
and other amenity priorities in and around the Cambie Corridor;
iii. What the total projected financial contributions might be from future major
project rezoning proposals adjacent to the Pearson Dogwood site, along with
information regarding the nature of the Amenity Contribution “opportunities”
referenced in the Pearson Dogwood Policy Report presented to Council at the
Tuesday, June 27, 2017, Regular Council meeting;
iv. Information regarding any and all current discussions with TransLink and other
key stakeholders regarding the potential to realize a future Canada Line station
at 57th Avenue station;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 38
v. What TransLink’s timeframe is for the addition of new train cars to the Canada
Line, and the timeframe for upgrades and expansions to existing Canada Line
stations, as per the investment priorities outlined in The Mayors' Council on
Regional Transportation 2014 plan and referenced in TransLink’s
February 26, 2016, letter to the City;
vi. A current total cost estimate to realize a new Canada Line station at 57th
Avenue and Cambie should the City of Vancouver opt to construct a station at
this location independent of TransLink, whereby the City would be required to
cover all costs, including all station construction costs, the cost of additional
fleet to maintain service hours to account for longer travel times, the cost to
upgrade train control and power systems and changes to system wayfinding, all
operating costs, all planning, engineering and implementation costs (including
the cost of maintaining service during construction), all costs to amend various
agreements (e.g., YVR and Canada Line owner), and all costs associated with
service disruption or slower total travel times resulting from station
construction as outlined in TransLink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City;
vii. Information regarding funding mechanisms the City might contemplate and/or
employ, such as incurring debt or raising taxes, in order to realize a new
Canada Line station at 57th Avenue and Cambie if the City of Vancouver were
to opt to construct a station at this location on its own and independent of
TransLink;
viii. A comparative estimate of the incremental cost to TransLink, and to the City of
Vancouver, to enhance existing transit access to the Pearson Dogwood site
given that the site is already considered to be “transit-oriented” and “within
800–1000 metres of existing Canada Line stations at 49th Avenue and Marine
Drive respectively, with frequent bus service along Cambie Street;
ix. Whether the recent election of an NDP government provincially has or will
change the parameters of The Mayors' Council on Regional Transportation 2014
plan, and any potential funding solutions, such that a new Canada Line station
at 57th and Cambie would become a transportation and funding priority for
TransLink;
x. An estimated in-service date for a new Canada Line station at 57th and
Cambie, should TransLink or the City of Vancouver proceed with construction,
given the indication in Translink’s February 26, 2016, letter to the City that an
implementation timeline is expected to be “no less than ten years” and may be
prolonged due to significant engineering challenges that would increase the
complexity of station construction.
amended

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 39
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the motion be struck and replaced with the following:
WHEREAS
1. TransLink staff have indicated that in 2018 they will begin to review the
Regional Transportation Strategy which will help guide the regional
transportation decisions for the next 30 years;
2. City of Vancouver staff will be involved in the review of the Regional
Transportation Strategy;
3. The 57th Avenue Canada Line Station would certainly be included in the review
to discuss new ideas and plans for the future of regional transportation.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT staff report back to Council on the future of the
57th Avenue Canada Line Station once the TransLink Regional Transportation Strategy
review has been completed.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02363)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr and De Genova opposed)
4. Funding Support for Park Board Service Costs Associated With Key Problem Parks
MOVED by Councillor Affleck
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The mission of the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation is to provide,
preserve, and advocate for parks and recreation services to benefit all people,
communities, and the environment;
2. In recent years, the Park Board and its budget have experienced significant
challenges related to drug use and litter in various Downtown parks, notably
Andy Livingstone Park, Emery Barnes Park, and Stanley Park, and increasingly
at Hinge Park, Creekside Park, and others;
3. Used syringes, in particular, represent an ongoing safety risk in a number of
Vancouver parks, especially for children who frequent Vancouver parks;
4. At the Monday, November 6, 2017, Park Board meeting, City of Vancouver
Engineering staff made a presentation to the Board regarding sanitation in
parks (including service types and responsibilities, ongoing service challenges,
and challenges with needle collection from parks) and responded to questions

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 40
from the Board (including discussion of the potential to engage not-for-profit
organization micro-cleaner programs for park sanitation);
5. At the November 6, 2017, Park Board meeting, the Park Board unanimously
resolved to “continue a service agreement with the City’s Engineering Streets
division to assist with key problem parks, as well as additional security
attendants in Andy Livingstone and Creekside Parks in 2018; and further that
costs be supported through a funding request to the City of Vancouver or
through the Park Board’s 2018 Operating Budget.”;
6. At the November 6, 2017, Park Board meeting, the Board also directed Park
Board staff “to develop a comprehensive and sustainable Park Ranger Service
Model, in consultation and collaboration with the Vancouver Police
Department, City of Vancouver, and community partners, to address safety,
security, cleanliness and maintenance concerns, particularly in relation to the
increased use of injectable drugs in Vancouver parks;
7. At the October 3, 2017, Regular Council meeting, a motion entitled “2018
Budget Enhancements Pertaining to Littering and Residents’ Safety” calling for
additional funding for the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation to enable
24-hour-a-day Park Ranger patrols at all Vancouver parks impacted by the
significant challenges of drug use and littering, as well as additional funding to
maintain the cleanliness and safety of impacted Vancouver parks on an ongoing
basis, was postponed (with unanimous Council support) until the matter had
been fully considered by the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation as part
of their regular business.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council direct City of Vancouver staff, as part of the 2018
operating budget planning process, to prioritize forthcoming requests from the
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation for increased funding to cover the
service costs associated with key problem parks, as well as additional security
attendants in Andy Livingstone and Creekside Parks in 2018, as per the Park
Board resolution at the November 6, 2017, Park Board meeting;
FURTHER THAT the funding be sufficient to maintain the cleanliness and safety
of impacted Vancouver parks on an ongoing basis.
B. THAT Vancouver City Council direct City staff to assist as needed with Park
Board efforts to develop a comprehensive and sustainable Park Ranger Service
Model, as per the Park Board resolution at the November 6, 2017, Park Board
meeting, in consultation and collaboration with the Vancouver Police
Department and community partners to address safety, security, cleanliness
and maintenance concerns, particularly in relation to the increased use of
injectable drugs in Vancouver parks.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 41
C. THAT Vancouver City Council direct City staff to continue to liaise with their
Park Board staff counterparts to explore ways in which Park Board can assist in
efforts to locate appropriate housing and supports for those struggling with
mental health and addiction challenges.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council refer recommendation A to staff for a budget impact analysis ahead of
the Special Council meeting on December 6, 2017, regarding the budget.
FURTHER THAT recommendations B and C be referred back to staff as part of their
deliberations already underway.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02365)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, and De Genova opposed)
5. Retaining Older Purpose Built Rental Accommodation
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
WHEREAS
1. The housing affordability crisis continues to escalate in Vancouver, especially
for the 51 percent of Vancouverites who rent, about half of whom spend more
than 30 percent of their income on rent;
2. Much of the most affordable rental accommodation in Vancouver exists in older
purpose-built rental buildings which are vulnerable to redevelopment and
replacement with rental housing that is far more expensive;
3. The Housing Vancouver strategy aims to protect and refresh the existing 90,000
units of affordable rental stock, despite some local area plans’ goals to
“replace aging stock”.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT staff report back on a specific purpose-built rental
accommodation strategy within the overall Housing Vancouver Strategy that outlines
ways to assess building condition, retrofit, increase retention and ensure affordability,
especially for current tenants of older purpose built rental buildings.
referred

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 42
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Retaining Older Purpose Built Rental
Accommodation”, to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting at 9:30 am, on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, in order to hear from
speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02391)
NOTICE OF MOTION
1. Preserving Livable/Usable Space in One and Two Family Houses
Councillor Louie submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be
placed on the December 12, 2017, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
all meetings to be held Thursday, December 21, 2017.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02392)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Extreme Weather Shelters
Councillor Reimer noted she had previously requested staff to investigate opportunities to
open emergency shelters during extreme wet weather. She also requested staff to follow up
with the Climate Leadership Team with the Provincial Government regarding funding for the
shelters. She wanted Council to be aware this is being worked on.
2. Media Releases
Councillor De Genova requested information on corporate media releases regarding the
process of communicating the media releases to Council. The City Manager provided a
response and noted media releases that summarize reports are released without Council
receiving them first.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, November 28, 2017 43
3. Construction on West 10th Avenue
Councillor De Genova noted that patients on West 10th Avenue are finding it difficult to get to
appointments due to construction. The City Manager provided a response and noted that the
City is working extensively on this issue and he agreed to recirculate the latest memo on this
matter.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 5:47 pm.
* * * * *