REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 15, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was
held on Wednesday, November 15, 2017, at 9:34 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor,
City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Heather Deal, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck*
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson, Vice-Chair
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged that we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tseil-Waututh First Nations.
1. Update from the Director of Transportation – November 2017
November 7, 2017
The Director of Transportation provided an update on ongoing major transportation projects
and, along with the City Manager, General Manager of Engineering Services, and staff from the
Transportation Planning Branch, responded to questions.
The Committee received the report for information.
2. 2017 Active Transportation Planning Updates
October 31, 2017
Staff from the Transportation Planning Branch provided an update on transportation planning,
including development of a Pedestrian Spot Improvement Program and the 5-year Cycling
Network Additions and, along with the General Manager of Engineering Services and the
Director of Transportation, responded to questions.
The Committee received the report for information.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2017 2
3. Update on Vancouver Public Bike Share Program
November 2, 2017
Staff from the Pubic Bike Share Branch provided an update on the public bike share program,
including background and ridership and, along with the General Manager of Engineering
Services, responded to questions.
At 11:52 am it was
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the meeting be extended to complete Item 3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of extending the public bike share
program.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 11:57 am and reconvened at 12:48 pm.
* * * * *
The Committee agreed to separate the components of the motion for the vote.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive the Administrative Report dated November 2, 2017,
entitled “Update on Vancouver Public Bike Share Program”, for information.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02350)
B. THAT Council direct staff to prepare by-law amendments to allow for Public
Bike Share City-wide.
C. THAT Council refer the Administrative Report dated November 2, 2017,
entitled “Update on Vancouver Public Bike Share Program”, to the Vancouver
Board of Parks and Recreation for information.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02351)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner and De Genova opposed)
4. Minor Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law 2849 and Skateboards in
Protected Bike Lanes
October 31, 2017
Staff from the Traffic and Data Management Branch provided an update on the use of skates,
skateboards and push-scooters in protected bike lanes and, along with the Director of
Transportation, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the report.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2017 3
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the use of skates, skateboards, and push-scooters in
protected bike lanes on a permanent basis.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, changes to the Street and Traffic By-law
No. 2849 as set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
October 31, 2017, entitled “Minor Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law
2849 and Skateboards in Protected Bike Lanes”.
C. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to prepare and bring
forward for enactment amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849
as generally set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
October 31, 2017, entitled “Minor Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law
2849 and Skateboards in Protected Bike Lanes”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02352)
5. Low-Carbon Energy Systems Policy and NEU Connectivity Requirements
November 2, 2017
Staff from the Sustainability Group provided an overview of the report, including background
on the Zero Emissions Building Plan and an update on Low-Carbon Energy System policy, and
responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the report.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Low-Carbon Energy Systems Policy attached as
Appendix A to the Policy Report dated November 2, 2017, entitled
“Low-Carbon Energy Systems Policy and NEU Connectivity Requirements”, that
defines a low-carbon energy system (“LCES”) and establishes criteria for use in
City policies and by-laws, including:
i. City-owned LCES, as described in section 5.0 of the proposed Policy;
ii. Utility-owned LCES, as described in section 6.0 of the proposed Policy;
iii. User-owned LCES, as described in section 7.0 of the proposed Policy;
and
iv. Existing utility-owned district energy systems, as described in section
8.0 of the proposed Policy.
B. THAT Council direct staff to review the outcomes of the Low-Carbon Energy
Systems Policy at regular intervals, and report back to Council within two years
with any recommendations for changes.
C. THAT Council approve amendments to City policies attached as Appendix B to
the Policy Report dated November 2, 2017, entitled “Low-Carbon Energy
Systems Policy and NEU Connectivity Requirements”, effective immediately, to

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2017 4
remove mandatory district energy connectivity requirements from new
rezoning and development applications received after the amended policies
take effect, except for:
i. Buildings in, or immediately adjacent to, areas that are served by a
City-owned LCES and subject to the City’s Energy Utility System By-law
No. 9552;
ii. Buildings in, or immediately adjacent to, areas under active study by
the City for expansion of City-owned LCES’s, those areas currently being
Northeast False Creek, Mount Pleasant, and False Creek Flats (as
indicated in the map in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
November 2, 2017, entitled “Low-Carbon Energy Systems Policy and NEU
Connectivity Requirements”); and
iii. Buildings within the East Fraser Lands (River District) Official
Development Plan, which is currently being updated by the City.
D. THAT Council direct staff to give rezoning and development applications
already received the option to proceed under the amended policies attached in
Appendix B of the Policy Report dated November 2, 2017, entitled “Low-Carbon
Energy Systems Policy and NEU Connectivity Requirements”, if the developer
can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning, that the
development will achieve a greenhouse gas outcome equivalent to connecting
to a low-carbon energy system.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02353)
6. Transparency in Financial Disclosure by Members of Council
At the Regular Council meeting on November 14, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred this
matter to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on November 15, 2017,
in order to hear from speakers.
At 2:40 pm, Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner and De Genova rose and declared Conflict of
Interest on Item 6 due to private business interests. They left the Council Chamber and did
not return until conclusion of this item at 3:08 pm.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The public has an increasing interest in greater transparency in government
and the City of Vancouver has been at the forefront of efforts to increase
access to information, including establishing the first open data policy for a
major city in Canada;
2. The financial interests of members of Council are currently disclosed under the
provincial Financial Disclosure Act;
3. The province of British Columbia states on the government website that "The
intent of the Financial Disclosure Act is to identify what areas of influence and
possible financial benefit an elected official, nominee or designated employee

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2017 5
might have by virtue of their office, and to ensure the public has reasonable
access to the information.";
4. On a number of occasions some Councillors have referenced employment
relationships or declared conflicts with corporate entities not listed on their
Statement of Financial Disclosure;
5. Recently a Councillor stated they would donate 100% of their publicly funded
salary to charity indicating they receive substantial personal financial benefit
from private interests but the exact interests are unclear due to the nature of
their external employment;
6. These undisclosed conflicts appear to exist as a result of Councillors who work
as lobbyists or government and public relation consultants on behalf of other
corporate interests.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council request staff to provide a mechanism for
members of the public to have access to information on potential conflicts of interest
for members of Council who list as sources of income public relations firms,
government relations firms, consultancies, holding companies of other entities which
obscure pecuniary interest.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council, prior to consideration of the motion entitled “Transparency in Financial
Disclosure by Members of Council”, refer this matter to staff for legal advice related
to appropriate occasions for Council members to declare conflict of interest.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02354)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner and De Genova absent for the vote due to Conflict of
Interest)
The Committee adjourned at 3:08 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 15, 2017
ARegular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
November 15, 2017, at 3:08 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations
and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Kerry Jang
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
November 15, 2017
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Update from the Director of Transportation – November 2017
2. 2017 Active Transportation Planning Updates
3. Update on Vancouver Public Bike Share Program
4. Minor Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law 2849 and Skateboards in Protected
Bike Lanes
5. Low-Carbon Energy Systems Policy and NEU Connectivity Requirements
6. Transparency in Financial Disclosure by Members of Council

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2017 2
Items 1 to 6
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of November 15, 2017, as contained in items 1 to 6,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 3:10 pm.
* * * * *