PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 14, 2017
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, November 14, 2017, at
6:05 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Maria Castro, Meeting Coordinator
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson
and Mayor Robertson opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 2
1. HERITAGE DESIGNATION: 1775 West 16th Avenue (Elson Residence) –
1785 West 16th Avenue (Bayne Residence) – 1795 West 16th Avenue
(Maguire Residence)
An application by Formwerks Architectural was considered as follows:
Summary: To add the existing buildings at 1775 and 1785 West 16th Avenue (the
Elson Residence and the Bayne Residence respectively) to the Vancouver
Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category, and to add the Maguire
Residence at 1795 West 16th Avenue to the Register in the ‘B’ evaluation
category; and to designate the exteriors of all three buildings as protected
heritage property.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was scheduled to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:10 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT Council add the Elson Residence at 1775 West 16th Avenue and the
Bayne Residence at 1785 West 16th Avenue [PID: 030-251-818, Lot A ,
Block 468, District Lot 526, Plan EPP72128] (the “site”) to the Vancouver
Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category.
B. THAT Council add the Maguire Residence at 1795 West 16th Avenue
[PID: 030-251-818, Lot A, Block 468, District Lot 526, Plan EPP72128]
(the “site”) to the Vancouver Heritage Register in the ‘B’ evaluation category.
C. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter,
by-laws to designate the exterior of the Elson Residence, the Bayne Residence,
and the Maguire Residence (the “heritage buildings”) as protected heritage
properties.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 3
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at
the risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02341)
2. REZONING: 1523 Davie Street (Gabriola Mansion)
An application by Ankenman Marchand Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (248) Comprehensive Development District for 1523 Davie Street
(Gabriola Mansion) to increase the maximum floor space ratio from 0.35 to 0.87
to allow for the conversion of the existing heritage building into 16 rental
dwelling units, for the construction of four rental infill townhouses along the
lane, and for the restoration and designation of significant heritage features.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Tim Ankenman, Ankenman Marchand Arcitects, provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 3 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 6 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 4
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition or expressed concerns regarding various aspects of the
application:
Mark Canning
Doug Cameron
Marjean Barrett
Dr. Joel Oger, President, West End Seniors’ Network
Anne Guthrie-Warman, Heritage Vancouver
Timothy Stark
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:59 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Timothy Ankenman, Ankenman Marchand Architects, provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing comments and responded to
questions.
Council Decision
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT discussion and decision on Item 2 be referred to the next Regular Council
meeting on November 28, 2017, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02342)
3. REZONING: 3681 Victoria Drive and 1915 Stainsbury Avenue
An application by DVRM Investments Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 3681 Victoria Drive and 1915 Stainsbury Avenue from
MC-1 (Industrial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
permit the development of two six-storey residential buildings with a total
of 153 secured market rental residential units, including artist live-work
studios. A height of 19.6 metres (64.3 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of
2.57 are proposed.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 5
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Cameron Thorn, Strand Development, provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 40 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 7 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence in the “other” category.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Brandan Price
The following spoke in opposition or expressed concerns regarding various aspects of the
application:
Melissa Pauliuk, President, The Works Strata
Andrea Mclaren
Dean McKay
John Mclaren
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:39 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Cameron Thorn, Strand Development, provided closing comments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 6
Staff Closing Comments
Engineering Services and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff, responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the application by Yamamoto Architecture Inc., on behalf of DVRM
Investments Ltd., to rezone 3681 Victoria Drive [PID: 009-420-185; Lot A,
Block A, District Lot 195, Plan 10286] and 1915 Stainsbury Avenue
[PID: 009-420-240; Lot 8, Block A, District Lot 195, Plan 10286] from
MC-1 (Industrial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio from 2.50 to 2.57 and the building height from
13.8 (45.3 ft.) to 19.6 m (64.3 ft.), to permit the development of two
six-storey residential buildings with a total of 153 secured market rental
housing units, including artist live-work studios, be referred to a public
hearing, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
September 19, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3681 Victoria Drive and
1915 Stainsbury Avenue”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Yamamoto Architecture Inc. and
stamped “Received City of Vancouver, March 10, 2017”, subject to the
following conditions, provided that the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability may allow minor alterations to this form
of development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, who shall
have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to reduce the apparent bulk, massing, and
height of the building, as follows:
(i) Increase the front yard setback for the west building by
4 ft. (to approx. 15 ft. total). (The 8 ft. setback on Levels
5 and 6 should be maintained.);

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 7
(ii) Increase the setback on Levels 5 and 6 of the east
building to 8 ft., on the north and west elevations, and
10 ft. on the south (Stainsbury Avenue) elevation. (The
setback on the courtyard elevation may be maintained at
6 ft.);
(iii) Increase the setback on Levels 5 and 6 of the west
building to 10 ft. on the south (Stainsbury Avenue)
elevation;
(iv) Reduce the width of the 6-storey “prow” facing
Stainsbury Avenue by approx. 9 ft. (full-building height);
and
(v) The courtyard opening should be maintained at approx.
99 ft. on Stainsbury Avenue, and approx. 34.5 ft. on
Victoria Drive, as proposed.
Note to applicant: It is anticipated that this condition will result
in a reduction in density, to a maximum of 2.57 FSR.
2. Design development to improve the entry forecourt and its
contribution to the public realm, as follows:
(i) Improve the legibility of the building entries;
Note to applicant: This can be achieved with improved
canopies, increased fenestration, material/colours,
lighting, and/or signage elements.
(ii) Provide an enhanced design treatment of the walls
flanking the exterior stair, consider cladding, landscape
and lighting opportunities;
(iii) Relocate the gate to create a more inviting public realm
condition; and
(iv) Explore opportunities for public art.
3. Design development to improve the building’s interface with the
public realm, as follows:
(i) Remove the exit stair from the lane setback, and relocate
into the building footprint;
(ii) Expand landscaping in the front yard of the west building,
on Victoria Drive (refer to condition 1 regarding an
increase to this setback);

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 8
(iii) Improve the design treatment of the lane elevation, to
mitigate the impact of the exposed parkade wall;
(iv) Provide a 6 ft. fence and robust landscaping (outboard) in
the buffer at the west side of the lane (refer to
Engineering condition (c)3); and
(v) Improvement of the private patios on Stainsbury Avenue.
Note to applicant: It is anticipated that condition 3(i) and 3(iv)
will result in a reduction in density. Improvement to the patios
on Stainsbury Avenue can be achieved by eliminating the
walkway from the patios to the courtyard, and increasing
landscape screening.
4. Design development to improve livability of dwelling units, as
follows:
(i) Provide bulk storage for every unit, per the Bulk Storage
and In-Suite Storage – Multiple Family Residential
Developments bulletin
(http://bylaws.vancouver.ca/bulletin/b004.pdf);
(ii) Provide a minimum depth of 6 ft. for all at-grade patios
(including on Stainsbury Ave); and
(iii) Provide at minimum 5 ft. clear depth for all balconies for
units with one or more bedrooms. Provide at minimum
3 ft. balconies (clear depth) for balconies for studios.
5. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any
built features intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable, and
provide a design rationale for the features noted. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to consider the principles of CPTED, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 9
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Review
7. Design development to the slab and structural design to provide
adequate soil volumes and depths for planting.
Note to applicant: To ensure the long-term viability of planting
in non-continuous growing medium, soil depths must meet or
exceed BCLNA planting standards. At the edges, new slabs may
need to angle down to provide deeper soils. Within the site at
the plaza level, the slab to be lowered below to avoid the
necessity for above-grade planter walls that would impede
pedestrian flow.
8. Design development to explore rainwater management solutions
and related grey water/mechanical systems to be scaled and
integrated with full infiltration from hard and soft surfaces
within the site, to the greatest extent practicable.
Note to applicant: The applicant is encouraged to reference the
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP), Volume II, Best
Management Practices, supported by Council in April 2016. At
the development permit stage, further details may be
requested.
9. Design development to locate site utilities and vents on private
property and integrated discreetly into the building, avoiding
landscaped and common areas.
10. Design development to reduce potable water consumption in the
irrigation systems by using drought-tolerant plant species,
efficient irrigation rainwater technology and rain water
harvesting methods (to the greatest extent practicable).
Note to applicant: Potable water may be needed for urban
agriculture areas and patios. Individual hose bibs to be provided
for all patios of 100 sq. ft. or greater in size, to encourage patio
gardening.
11. Further coordination with Engineering and Park Board Urban
Forestry with regard to review of trees located on City property.
Note to applicant: Further design development may be necessary
at the development permit stage, where applicable.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 10
12. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable, to be confirmed prior to the issuance of the
building permit, at the discretion of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
Note to applicant: Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604-871-6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604-257-8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Provide a notation on the plan: “Final spacing,
quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of good
standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers
shall be 8 feet long and 18 inches in deep. Planting depth of root
ball must be below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for
inspection after tree planting completion.”
13. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) Provision of a detailed landscape plan illustrating soft and
hard landscape treatment;
Note to applicant: The landscape plan should include a
planting plan listing common and botanical name, size
and quantity of all existing/ proposed plant material.
Plant material should be clearly illustrated on the
landscape plan and keyed to the plant list. Illustrate and
clarify all outdoor surface/paving materials, site
furniture, bicycle racks, lighting, trash receptacles, hose
bibs, signs, retaining wall treatment, parking vents,
at-grade utilities, and public realm (building edge to the
curb, street trees, lamp posts, fire hydrants, sidewalk
treatment).
(ii) Provision of large-scale sections [typical] through
landscaped areas, including the ground-oriented
interface, the slab-patio-planter relationship, street
trees, the lane interface, common areas and upper storey
planters;
Note to applicant: The sections should include the
planter materials, tree canopy, tree stem, outline of the
root ball, voiding, built up membrane and dimensions.
(iii) Provision of spot elevations to all outdoor areas (including
top/ bottom walls), including off-site context spot
elevations in proximity (public sidewalks, inner
boulevards and lanes);

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 11
(iv) Provision of adequate soil volumes and depths for
planting on slabs and in planters;
Note to applicant: Refer to rezoning condition (b)7. To
ensure the long-term viability of planting in
non-continuous growing medium, soil depths must meet
or exceed BCLNA planting standards. At the edges, new
slabs should angle down to provide deeper soils. Within
the site at the plaza level, the slab may need to be
lowered below or create tree planting pits to avoid the
necessity for above-grade planter walls that would
impede pedestrian flow.
(v) Provision of universal design principles in the outdoor
spaces;
Note to applicant: Special consideration should be given
to the ground plane, including paving materials, grade
changes, benches near entrances on site and at
reasonable intervals for public use along shared
circulation routes.
(vi) Provision of a “Tree Removal and Protection Plan” in
coordination with arboricultural services, including the
assessment of existing trees and retention feasibility;
Note to applicant: Provide a large-scale tree plan that is
separate from the landscape plan. The plan should clearly
illustrate all trees to be removed and/or retained, where
applicable, including any tree protection barriers and
important construction management directives drawn out
of the arborist report(s). Tree replacements are best
located on the proposed phased landscape plans.
(vii) Provision of a partial irrigation plan to demonstrate
efficient irrigation system for all common outdoor
planters (existing and new) and individual hose bibs for
larger-sized patios to encourage patio gardening;
Note to applicant: Specification notes and irrigation
symbols should be added to the drawing.
(viii) Provision of all necessary infrastructure to support urban
agriculture, including hose bibs, tool storage, work tables
and seating.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 12
Sustainability
14. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of
LEED® Gold rating, with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to applicant: Provide an updated LEED® checklist and
sustainable design strategy at time of Development Permit
application outlining how the proposed points will be achieved, a
letter of confirmation from an accredited professional
confirming that the building has been designed to meet these
goals, and a receipt including registration number from the
CaGBC. The checklist and strategy should be incorporated into
the drawing set. Application for certification of the project will
also be required under the policy.
Engineering
15. The lane-bulge design is to provide adequate overhead clearance
(25 ft. minimum), for all expected trucks that will use the
lane-bulge area, in particular waste haul vehicles, is to be
designed to accommodate the weight of the expected trucks and
the surface to be asphalt or concrete. Provision of drawings
sections confirming the overhead clearances are required.
16. Clearly show the lane-bulge dimensions on all relevant plans and
ensure there are no encroachments in the lane-bulge
right-of-way and that parking ramps, loading bays, PMTs etc. do
not encroach into the bulge area.
17. The parkade ramp should meet City building grades at the
property line and not exceed 5% slope or crossfall should it
encroach into the lane-bulge area.
18. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
Services to determine the project’s permissible street use.
Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize street use during
excavation and construction (i.e. consideration to the building
design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from)
and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major
crane erection / removal or slab pour that requires additional
street use beyond the already identified project street use
permissions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 13
19. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way.
20. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site. Current construction practices
regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at
risk during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring
systems. Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be
sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
21. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from
the location shown.
Note to applicant: Pick-up operations should not rely on bins
being stored on the street or lane for pick up, bins are to be
returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.
22. Confirmation that the latest building grades include confirmed
building grades along the new lane alignment as there appear to
only be architectural design grades shown.
23. Provide additional design grades opposite each building entry at
the property lines clearly showing entries meet City building
grades.
24. Delete 2nd row of trees shown on public property along the
Victoria Drive frontage.
25. Delete pavers from public property and show standard
broom-finished concrete sidewalks.
26. Show 1st risers of all entries a minimum of 1’-0” behind the
property line.
27. Gates/doors are not to swing more than 1’-0” over the property
lines (see Victoria Drive entries on landscape plan).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 14
28. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the improvements
sought for this rezoning. Please place the following statement on
the landscape plan: “A landscape plan is to be submitted for
review to Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to
the start of any construction proposed for public property. No
work on public property may begin until such plans receive “For
Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please
contact Engineering Services for details.” Please note that the
civil design process and landscape plans are to be coordinated
prior to the start of any work on public property.
Please submit a separate copy of the landscape plans to
Engineering Services for review following updating.
29. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of truck-turning swathes by a qualified
Transportation Engineer to be shown on the drawings.
Note to applicant: Show the largest truck manoeuvering
from Stainsbury Avenue, down the lane, into and out of
the loading bay towards Porter Street.
(ii) Provision of additional design elevations of both sides of
the main parkade ramp, loading bay, throughout the
parking level and at all entrances to calculate the slope
and crossfall.
(iii) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp,
through the loading bay, the 12.5% ramp from P1 to P2
and the parking levels.
(iv) Label minimum clearance for the parking ramp, the
loading bay and the parking levels on the section
drawings, including overhead gate and mechanical
projections.
(v) Confirm requirements for an overhead gate between the
visitor and the residential parking and show on the
drawings.
(vi) Confirm if the main ramp overhead gate will be wireless
FOB activated.
Note to applicant: Additional ramp width is required for
enterphones or card readers located on the ramp.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 15
(vii) Provision of additional parking stall width for stalls
adjacent to walls.
(viii) Modify column alignment to comply with by-law. Refer to
Section B, between Section C and D on drawing A2.1.
(ix) Provision of all stalls to be numbered and labelled on the
drawings.
(x) Provision of all columns and column setbacks to be
dimensioned on the drawings.
(xi) Remove tree and landscaping shown in the Class B load
throat on drawing L1.1 to provide unobstructed
manoeuvering.
(xii) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
(xiii) Modify the bicycle parking to meet by-law and design
supplement requirements.
Note to applicant: Bicycle room(s) must not contain more
than 40 bicycle spaces except where the additional
bicycle spaces are comprised of lockers.
(xiv) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s).
(xv) Provide an alcove for bike room access off the vehicle
maneuvering aisle.
Note to applicant: Refer to drawing A2.0, the parking
stall adjacent to the bottom of the ramp, north side from
P1 to P2.
Note to applicant: Sewer connections are to be to
Stainsbury Avenue only.
30. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the
Vancouver Parking By-Law.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 16
Housing
31. The proposed unit mix, including 45 studio (29%), 46
one-bedroom units (30%), 35 two-bedroom units (23%), and 27
three-bedroom units (18%), is to be included in the Development
Permit drawings.
Note to applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.
32. The development is to comply with the High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, and include a kitchenette and
accessible washroom in the indoor common amenity rooms.
Note to applicant: Indoor and outdoor common amenity areas
should be adjacent to one another and have direct visual and
physical connection between them. The outdoor amenity area
should be designed to accommodate a range of children’s play
activities.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, the General Manager of
Community Services, and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at
the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements
for the following:
Engineering Services
1. The closing of, stopping up and conveying to the owner the
required portion of the lane west of Victoria Drive north of
Stainsbury Avenue, subsequent to Council approval; and the
relocation or decommissioning of any utilities within this area.
2. Provision of written confirmation and agreement from all
affected utility companies that services can be relocated or
removed from the existing lane right-of-way.
3. Consolidation of the closed portion of lane, Lot A and Lot 8 to
form a single development parcel, and subdivision of that site to
result in the dedication of the westerly 20 feet of Lot 8 for lane
purposes and an additional dedication to accommodate a buffer
adjacent the eastern edge of 1851 Stainsbury Avenue (BCS 2959).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 17
The buffer dimension to be minimum 1.5 m with design to be
determined in consultation with the Director of Planning.
Note to applicant: A subdivision application will be required.
4. Provision of a Statutory Right-of-Way (“SRW”) for a lane-turning
bulge over a portion of the development site adjacent to the
easterly limit of the new lane bend for vehicle manoeuvring
purposes. The bulge design/dimensions are to be to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services and
at minimum allow for turning of garbage trucks through the lane.
The bulge dimensions to be refined during the development
permit process (see sketch for general configuration). Parking
levels P1 and P2 and those portions of the building structure at
and above the 3rd floor level located within the SRW area are to
be accommodated within the SRW agreement.
5. Registration of a temporary SRW agreement in favour of the City
over the portion of lane to be closed for public utility purposes,
to be discharged once all utilities impacted by the lane closure
have been abandoned, relocated or otherwise protected, as
necessary, and any associated lane and street reconstruction
works have been completed or arrangements for their
completion to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services are established.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 18
6. Provision of building setback and a surface SRW to achieve a
5.5.m distance from the back of the City curb to the building
face along the Victoria Drive frontage of the site. A legal survey
of the existing dimension from the back of the City curb to the
existing property line is required to determine the final
setback/SRW dimension.
7. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 428545M
(commercial crossings) prior to building occupancy.
Note to applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
8. Confirmation of arrangements with BC Hydro for the release of
Easement B64363.
9. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Watercourse By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following:
(a) retain or infiltrate the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
(b) treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 19
(c) maintain the pre-development 5-year storm event
rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post development
estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
(iii) Provision of new concrete curb and gutter, 1.83 m
minimum broomed-finished concrete sidewalk with
sawcut control joints, 1.5 m sod boulevard, street trees
where space permits, upgraded or new street lighting and
pavement on Stainsbury Avenue adjacent the site. Work
to include adjustment or installation of all related
infrastructure to allow for the proposed road construction
and improvements.
(iv) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(v) Provision of new 1.83 m broomed-finished concrete
sidewalk with sawcut control joints and minimum 1.2 m
sod boulevard adjacent the site.
Note to applicant: Sidewalk should align with the
sidewalk to the north.
(vi) Provision of upgraded and/or new street lighting adjacent
the site to current LED standards. A lighting study is
required to determine the extent of street lighting
upgrading necessary.
(vii) Removal of the old lane entry and related works and
installation of a new concrete curb and gutter lane entry
with commercial concrete lane crossing at the entry to
the new lane.
(viii) Provision of a new lane constructed to current standards
within the new lane dedication area. Work to include all
infrastructure to accommodate the new lane including

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 20
drainage and reprofiling of portions of the existing lane
west of the development site to accommodate the
construction of the new lane.
(ix) Provision of upgraded curb return at Stainsbury Avenue
and Victoria Drive adjacent the site, including new curb
ramps to meet current standards.
(x) Provision of a signed and marked crosswalk and two curb
ramps at the intersection of Commercial Street and
Stainsbury Avenue, subject to a detailed review of the
crossing proposal with implementation of the crosswalk
work fully at the discretion of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
(xi) Confirmation that any relocated/removed wood poles in
the lane adjacent the site will not impact existing lane
lighting, should any relocated pole impact existing lane
lighting then upgrading or new lane lighting to current
standard will be required.
(xii) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
10. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from
the existing overhead electrical network on the street
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch.
Note to applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Housing
11. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 21
into a Housing Agreement securing all residential units as market
rental housing units for the longer of 60 years or the life of the
building, subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) a no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) a no stratification covenant;
(iii) that none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time; and
(iv) such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City, by by-law, enacted
pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Public Art
12. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to applicant: Please call Karen Henry, Public Art Planner
(604-673-8282), to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
13. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 22
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the
Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing
Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
September 19, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3681 Victoria Drive and
1915 Stainsbury Avenue”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the
Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the applicant and its
mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms
and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Community Services.
C. THAT the application to amend Schedule A of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated September 19, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3681 Victoria Drive
and 1915 Stainsbury Avenue”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to
the Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated September 19, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3681 Victoria Drive
and 1915 Stainsbury Avenue.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 23
E. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02343)
* * * * *
At 7:52 pm, Councillor De Genova declared a conflict of interest on Item 4 as an immediate
family member is involved in the development of the site. She left the Council Chamber and
did not return until the conclusion of this item.
* * * * *
4. REZONING: 521-527 West 8th Avenue
An application by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 521-527 West 8th Avenue from from C-3A (Commercial) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of
an eight-storey office building with commercial retail use at grade. A height
of 33.3 metres (109.3 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 6.51 are
proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 24
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 11 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 7 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Tyler Morrow
Devon Hussack
Rani Hatz, Cambie Village Business Association
Joel Wasel
The following expressed concerns regarding various aspects of the application:
Moreen Cobb
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:11 pm.
Closing Comments
Engineering staff and Dana Hough, Core Project Management, responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the application by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership, on behalf of
VANLUX West 8th Inc., to rezone 521-527 West 8th Avenue [Lots 16 and 17,
Except the north 10 feet now lane, Block 320, District Lot 526, Plan 590;
PIDs: 004-316-703 and 004-309-707 respectively] from C-3A (Commercial)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 3.00 to 6.51 and the building height to 33.3 m (109.3 ft.)
to permit the development of an eight-storey office building with commercial
retail use at grade, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated September 19, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 521-527 West 8th
Avenue”, be approved subject to the following conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 25
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership
and stamped “Received City of Vancouver, March 14, 2017”, subject to
the following conditions, provided that the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, who shall
have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Provision of design development to refine the exterior finishes to
add visual interest consistent with the rezoning application,
while maintaining high quality and durability.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to maintain the proposed quality
in all aspects, including appearance, durability, and
performance, with consideration given to incorporating further
details to add visual interest and texture to the façade, such as
fritting or imagery to the glass, or passive design elements,
noting that the latter will also improve the building’s
environmental performance.
2. Provision of improved pedestrian interest through a more active
use at the ground floor at the corner of 8th Avenue and the lane.
Note to Applicant: Relocate the stair and elevator to the
underground parkade away from the exterior façade, so that a
more engaging and pedestrian-friendly use may be provided.
3. Provision of continuous weather protection along the 8th Avenue
frontage.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to ensure coverage for
pedestrians in Vancouver’s winter climate and to make this
street ‘rain friendly’ as noted in the Transportation 2040 Plan.
The canopy should extend horizontally from the ground floor
wall for a distance that is at least 70% of the canopy’s height
above the sidewalk. For example, if the canopy is located 10 ft.
above the sidewalk, then it should extend 7 ft. horizontally.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 26
Landscape
4. Design development to the slab and structural design to provide
adequate soil volumes and depths for planting.
Note to Applicant: To ensure the long-term viability of planting in
non-continuous growing medium, soil depths must meet or exceed
BCLNA planting standards.
5. Provision of additional details to ensure the viability of the green
wall system on the west elevation.
6. Design development to locate site utilities and vents on private
property and integrated discreetly into the building, avoiding
landscaped and common areas.
7. Design development to reduce potable water consumption in the
irrigation systems by using drought-tolerant plant species,
efficient irrigation rainwater technology and rain water
harvesting methods (to the greatest extent practicable).
8. Provision of new street trees adjacent to the development site,
where applicable, to be confirmed prior to the issuance of the
building permit, at the discretion of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: Contact Eileen Curran, Streets Engineering
(604-871-6131) to confirm tree planting locations and Park Board
(604-257-8587) for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Provide a notation on the plan: "Final spacing,
quantity and tree species to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. New trees must be of good
standard, minimum 6 cm caliper, and installed with approved
root barriers, tree guards and appropriate soil. Root barriers
shall be 8 feet long and 18 inches in deep. Planting depth of root
ball must be below sidewalk grade. Call Park Board for inspection
after tree planting completion.”
9. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) Provision of a detailed landscape plan illustrating soft and
hard landscape treatment.
Note to Applicant: The landscape plan should include a
planting plan listing common and botanical name, size
and quantity of all existing/proposed plant material.
Plant material should be clearly illustrated on the
landscape plan and keyed to the plant list. Illustrate and
clarify all outdoor surface/paving materials, site

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 27
furniture, bicycle racks, lighting, trash receptacles, hose
bibs, signs, retaining wall treatment, parking vents,
at-grade utilities, and public realm (building edge to the
curb, street trees, lamp posts, fire hydrants, sidewalk
treatment).
(ii) Provision of large-scale sections [typical] through
landscaped areas, including the ground-oriented
interface, the slab-planter relationship, street trees, any
common areas and upper storey planters.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the
planter materials, tree canopy, tree stem, outline of the
root ball, voiding, built up membrane and dimensions.
(iii) Provision of spot elevations to all outdoor areas (including
top/bottom walls), including off-site context spot
elevations in proximity (public sidewalks, inner
boulevards and lanes).
(iv) Provision of adequate soil volumes and depths for
planting on slabs and in planters.
Note to Applicant: Refer to Landscape condition 4. To
ensure the long-term viability of planting in
non-continuous growing medium, soil depths must meet
or exceed BCLNA planting standards.
(v) Provision of universal design principles in the outdoor
spaces.
Note to Applicant: Special consideration should be given
to the ground plane, including paving materials, grade
changes, benches near entrances on site and at
reasonable intervals for public use along shared
circulation routes.
(vi) Provision of a partial irrigation plan to demonstrate
efficient irrigation system for all outdoor planters.
Note to Applicant: Specification notes and irrigation
symbols should be added to the drawing.
Sustainability
10. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of
LEED® Gold rating, with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 28
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: Provide an updated LEED® checklist and
sustainable design strategy at time of Development Permit
application outlining how the proposed points will be achieved, a
letter of confirmation from an accredited professional
confirming that the building has been designed to meet these
goals, and a receipt including registration number from the
CaGBC. The checklist and strategy should be incorporated into
the drawing set. Application for certification of the project will
also be required under the policy.
Engineering
11. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
12. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site. Detailed confirmations of these
commitments will be sought at the building permit stage with
final design achievements certified and confirmed with survey
and photographic evidence of removals and protection of
adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of
written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please
contact Engineering Services for details.
13. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right-of-way.
14. Delete what appears to be curbing from the corner cut off lane
dedication area (lower ground floor plan).
15. Clarify garbage and recycling space location. If “RCY” is
intended as the garbage and recycling room please indicate bins
and totters intended for the space (please reference the COV
garbage and recycling supplement).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 29
16. A canopy application is required. Canopies must be fully
demountable and drained to the buildings internal drainage
system. Canopies are defined as a rigid roof-like structure
supported entirely from a building and where the canopy deck is
constructed of wired or laminated safety glass or metal not less
than 0.56 mm in thickness. (VBBL section 1A.9.8).
17. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought by this application.
18. Provision of additional design grades at all entries clearly
indicating City building grades are met at the property lines.
19. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
20. Design development to improve access to bicycle parking.
Note to Applicant: As there is no parking ramp for bicycle
access, an appropriately sized elevator with double doors,
providing direct access to outside is required. Clearly note the
access route on plans.
21. Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from the
loading spaces to the CRU and elevator core.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and confirm
the use of an elevator, if required.
22. Provision of an improved plan showing six (6) Class B bicycle
spaces on private property.
Note to Applicant: Locate the bike rack in close proximity to the
lobby entrance with ‘stairs free’ access. Ensure that bicycles
locked to the rack do not encroach over the property line.
23. Provision of an improved drawing A2.01 to show the complete
layout of stalls 12, 13 and the parking ramp.
24. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay,
additional design elevations within the parking area, and
at all entrances.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 30
Note to Applicant: Provide separate P1 and P2 drawings
with design elevations.
(ii) Dimension all columns (length, width, and column
setback) that are encroaching into parking stalls, all
parking and loading stall widths, stall offsets from walls,
and number and label all stalls.
(iii) Relocate disability stalls at gridline B/2, closer to the
elevator core.
Note to Applicant: The required minimum number of
disability stalls can be bonused as two parking spaces as
per section 4.1.15 of the PBL.
(iv) Design development to improve access to parking.
Note to Applicant: Relocate the column adjacent to stall
20 on P1 to be clear of the maneuvering aisle and provide
additional stall width for stall 20. This condition exists on
multiple levels.
(v) Provision of minimum vertical clearance for the main
ramp, security gates, and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical
clearance is required for access and maneuvering to all
disability spaces. 3.8 m of vertical clearance is required
for Class B loading spaces and maneuvering.
(vi) Provision of measures to improve visibility and address
conflicts between vehicles at the 90 degree turn on the
ramp at gridline 1/B. A parabolic mirror is recommended.
(vii) Modification of the Class B loading bay design to provide
double loading throats as the west end of the lane
narrows to 3 m.
25. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the
Vancouver Parking By-Law, except:
(i) A minimum of 2 Class B and 2 Class A loading spaces must
be provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 31
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 16 and 17, Both Except the North 10 Feet,
Now Lane, Block 320, DL 526, Plan 590 to create a single parcel
and subdivision of that site to result in the dedication of the
easterly 6 ft. of the site and a further 10 ft. x10 ft. corner-cut
truncation in the northeast corner of the site for lane purposes.
2. Provision of a building setback and a surface Statutory
Right-of-Way (SRW) on West 8th Avenue to achieve a 4.5 m
(15 ft.) sidewalk from the back of the existing City curb to the
building face. A legal survey of the existing dimension from the
back of the City curb is required to determine the final
setback/SRW dimension. The SRW will be free of any
encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door swing, landscape
and bicycle parking at grade but the encroaching building
portions shown below grade and at the 3rd storey and above will
be accommodated within the SRW agreement.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 32
(ii) Upgrade approximately 125 m of the existing 600 mm
stormwater main along West 8th Avenue and
Cambie Street to the Metro Vancouver English Bay
Interceptor. The proposed size is a 900 mm, but the
applicant is to submit design calculations and drawings to
the City for final review.
(iii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and comply with the Sewer
and Watercourse By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following:
(a) retain or infiltrate the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
(b) treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite; and
(c) maintain the pre-development 2014 IDF-10-year
storm event rate. The post-development estimate
shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account for climate
change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be required
to ensure ongoing operations of certain stormwater
storage systems.
(iv) Provision of a natural watercourse agreement. Records
indicate there are natural watercourses that may pass
through the site. Watercourses may not be blocked but
can be rerouted within the site to reduce the impact on
the sites development. A legal arrangement will be
required.
(v) Provision of a CIP light broom-finish concrete sidewalk
with sawcut joints on West 8th Avenue adjacent the site
in keeping with area standards.
(vi) Provision of a concrete lane crossing and associated
curb returns and ramps on both sides of the lane entry
at the lane west of Cambie Street on the north side of
West 8th Avenue to current standards.
(vii) Upgrading of the traffic signal at the intersection of
Cambie Street and West 8th Avenue from an audible
signal to an accessible pedestrian signal.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 33
(viii) Provision of new street lighting to current standards
should it be a required. A lighting study is necessary to
determine the extent of upgrading or new lighting that
may be necessary.
(ix) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct
banks are to consist of electrical and communication
ducts sized to meet City needs in a configuration
acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical
codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work.
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
(x) Provision of lane paving for the dedication areas including
adjustment of existing pavement where necessary to
ensure typical lane design standards are met.
(xi) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary voltage from
the existing overhead electrical network on the street
right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 34
Environmental Contamination
5. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on site and off site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the
Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 35
B. THAT the application to amend Schedule A of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated September 19, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 521-527 West 8th
Avenue”, be approved.
C. That, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
September 19, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 521-527 West 8th Avenue.”
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02344)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
5. REZONING: 3030-3038 Commercial Drive - WITHDRAWN
6. REZONING: 8615 Laurel Street
An application by Domus Homes and Birmingham and Wood, was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 8615 Laurel Street from RM-3A (Multiple Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
six-storey residential building, containing a total of 65 secured market
rental housing units. A height of 20.1 metres (66 feet) and a floor space
ratio (FSR) of 2.50 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 36
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided a presentation.
Applicant Comments
Richard Wittstock, Domus Homes, provided opening comments and, along with Julian
Pattison, Considered Design, responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 8 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Ashley Belzil
Rebecca Hartley
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Christine Cao
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:43 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Birmingham and Wood on behalf of 8615 Laurel Street
Holdings Ltd., the registered owner, to rezone 8615 Laurel Street
[PID:029-934- 672; Lot A, Block C, District Lot 319, Group 1, New Westminster

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 37
District Plan EPP64060], from RM-3A (Multiple Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio
(FSR) from 1.45 to 2.50 and to increase the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to
20.1 m (66 ft.), to permit the development of a six-storey residential building,
containing a total of 65 secured market rental housing units, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated October 3, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 8615 Laurel Street”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Birmingham and Wood, on behalf of
8615 Laurel Street Holdings Ltd. and stamped “Received Planning &
Development Services, January 27, 2017”, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of development when
approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the relationship to grade, as
follows:
(i) Lower the courtyard elevation to approximately 63.5 ft.
(resulting in a main floor elevation of approximately
64 ft.).
(ii) Provide an accessible path of travel to the courtyard from
Laurel Street. A second access path with steps may be
provided from Oak Street.
(iii) Lower the grades in the south yard to minimize the
retaining wall and steps along the south property line
(i.e. approx. 61 ft.).
(iv) Minimize retaining walls and terracing along the west and
east property lines.
(v) Design the front yard to adhere more closely to existing
grades, and to retain the existing mature tree. Private
patios should be screened with landscaping and/or
terracing, to avoid guardrails in the front yard.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 38
(vi) On elevation drawings, indicate grades at the property
line (not at the sidewalk), and co-ordinate with official
Building Grades. On elevations and sections, add existing
grade line in dashed line, and show the outline of the
neighbouring building to the south.
Note to Applicant: It is anticipated that lowering the
main floor elevation will result in revisions to the massing
to accommodate the parkade ramp, and may result in a
decrease in overall floorspace. Further conditions may
result from the information provided.
2. Design development to improve the common outdoor spaces, as
follows:
(i) Provide weather protection for the exterior stairs and
corridors.
(ii) Provide an area for mailboxes, with appropriate weather
protection, furnishing and lighting.
(iii) Provide a weather-protected area contiguous with the
amenity room.
Clarify the access to the amenity room for the courtyard
(three doors are currently shown);
(iv) Clarify the location of security gates (if provided), and
accurately illustrate on plans and elevations.
(v) Relocate the pad-mounted transformer to the south-west
corner of the site, to maximize the common outdoor
space at the lane.
Note to Applicant: Further conditions may result from the
information provided.
3. Design development to improve the livability of the dwelling
units, by providing a private outdoor space (minimum 5 ft.
depth) for each dwelling unit.
Note to Applicant: Several units in the northeast corner do not
have balconies. Note that the open air ‘walkway’ between the
two “blocks” of the north building does not fulfill the
requirement for private outdoor space, as it is enclosed on four
sides and does not have sufficient solar access. It is
recommended that projecting balconies be provided on the
exterior wall.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 39
4. Design development to improve the building elevations, as
follows:
(i) Provide elevations for the north side of the south building
and south side of the north building, to illustrate the
design of the courtyard.
(ii) Indicate all exterior cladding materials (i.e. provide a
legend).
(iii) Provide reflected elevation of neighbouring building on
South Elevations.
(iv) Distinguish door openings, operable and non-operable
windows on elevation drawings.
Note to Applicant: Further conditions may result from the
information provided.
5. The proposed unit mix, including 42 one-bedroom units
(65 per cent), 21 two- bedroom units (32 per cent), and two
three-bedroom units (3 per cent), is to be included in the
Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.
6. Provision of bulk storage unit for each dwelling unit.
Note to Applicant: Storage for units without in-suite storage
must be provided in below grade storage area or in other
convenient location in the building.
7. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any
built features intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable, and
provide a design rationale for the features noted. For more
information, see the guidelines at:
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
8. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 40
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
9. Design development to provide a more conservative tree removal
strategy, including as a minimum, Tree #1 (Western Red Cedar in
good condition), to be integrated into the new landscape plan.
Note to Applicant: This tree is located on the west edge of the
site and would require a clear Critical Root Zone of 2.28 m. It is
understood that revisions to the parkade and footprint would be
required. It is expected that all developments will adhere to
Council’s approved Urban Forest Canopy Strategy, by retaining a
maximum of viable trees, while still allowing development. A
revised Arborist Report should document and make
recommendations for methods of protection of retained trees
during construction. If arborist supervision is required, then a
Letter of Assurance should also be provided, signed and dated by
arborist, owner and contractor.
10. Design development to expand programming, provide better
definition and articulation and improve the livability of the
common courtyard, by the following:
(i) Provide better defined opportunities for informal seating
and gathering by including some lawn areas, seat walls
and benches;
(ii) Ensure that planters over the parkade in the common
areas are flush with the grade, rather than raised, for a
smooth, unobstructed visual experience. This will require
alterations to the parkade height, in order to allow
adequate depth of soil.
(iii) Expand programming to include opportunities for
children’s play. The play area should be located in
proximity of benches, where visual access for adult
supervision of children can take place from the indoor
Amenity Room.
(iv) Explore opportunities for increasing solar access.
11. Design development to improve presentation to both Laurel
Street and 70th Avenue, by the provision of low, layered,
friendly planting beds oriented to the street.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 41
12. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided
with amenities such as, raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
13. A full Landscape Plan for the proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant
materials (with common and botanical names, plant sizes and
quantities), paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading
and other landscape features. Plant material should be listed in
a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The
Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale. The
plan should read clearly in black and white, without tones or
shading.
14. A Tree Management Plan, showing all existing trees to be
retained/relocated/removed, complete with tree protection in
coordination with the arborist report.
15. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including planters
on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details must confirm that the
depth of proposed planting on structures is deep enough to
accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the future, at
a depth that exceeds BCSLA standard.
16. Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to public
realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated
private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences
and planters. The location of the underground parking slab
should be included in the section.
17. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen lane
edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a manner which
minimizes their impact on the architectural expression and the
project’s open space and public realm.
18. New proposed street trees should be noted “Final species,
quantity and spacing to the approval of City Engineer and Park

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 42
Board”. Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering
Streets Division regarding street tree spacing and quantity.
Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board regarding
tree species.
19. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for
all planters on parkade slab and minimum of hose bibs to be
provided for landscape on grade;
20. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
Sustainability
21. Confirm that the building is on track to meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
22. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing
buildings on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition
waste (excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 43
Engineering
23. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
24. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
25. Clarify garbage storage and pick-up space. Please show
containers and totters on plans for recycling and garbage needs
and refer to the Engineering garbage and recycling storage
facility design supplement for recommended dimensions and
quantities of bins. Pick up operations should not rely on bins
being stored on the street or lane for pick up, and bins are to be
returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.
26. Provision of an updated landscape and site plan that reflects the
off-site improvements sought by this rezoning.
27. Provision of a building design that meets the City building grades
and provides structural support for both 70th Avenue and the
City lane at the property lines. Typically the buildings’
foundation walls are constructed at the property lines and at
elevations that meet City building grades.
28. The first step risers are to be 1 ft. behind the property lines.
29. Revised building grades are required that reflect the 17 ft.
building line along West 70th Avenue and corrected or added
design grades as needed to reflect construction elevations that
meet City building grades around the site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 44
30. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and the
parking levels.
Note to Applicant: label the minimum clearance for the
parking levels on drawing, including at overhead gate and
mechanical projections. Minimum 2.3 m clearance is
required for disability spaces.
(ii) Provision of an updated section drawing A2.0 and
additional east to west section drawings through the
parking level with overhead projections into stalls noted
and dimensioned on the drawings.
Note to Applicant: Projections over stalls to comply with
Section B of the Parking and Loading Design Supplement.
(iii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, throughout the parking levels
and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: The slope and length of the ramp
sections must be shown on the submitted drawings.
(iv) Show all columns in the parking level and dimension all
columns encroaching into parking stalls.
(v) Dimension and number all parking stalls.
(vi) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
(vii) Provide an alcove for the 25 space bike room with access
off the maneuvering aisle in the P1 parking level.
(viii) Provision of a complete tech table showing the
calculations for the minimum required parking, loading,
bicycle spaces and the number of spaces being provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 45
Housing Policy and Projects
31. Provide a completed Tenant Relocation Application Form which
includes a list outlining the name of each tenant, the number of
the tenant’s unit, the size of unit, the type of unit, and their
rent, as per Section 6.1(a) of the Tenant Relocation and
Protection Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted
at the time of development permit application.
32. Provide a letter stating the property address and legal
description of the site, and providing the names and mailing
addresses of all tenants.
33. Provide a notarized declaration, prior to issuance of a
development permit which demonstrates that each tenant has
been given written notice of the intent to redevelop the
property; that indicates the number of units occupied on the
date of the notice; includes information on posting of notice
regarding the intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and
includes copies of a letter addressed to each tenant summarizing
the Tenant Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each
tenant.
34. Provide a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior
to issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the names of
tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for alternate
accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value given to
each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other compensation); and
includes a summary of all communication provided to the
tenants.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Dedication of the northerly 17 ft. of the site (the building line
area) for road purposes. A subdivision is required to effect the
dedication. A subdivision plan and application to the Subdivision
and Strata Group is required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 46
2. Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure
the provision, operation and maintenance of two Shared Vehicles
and the provision and maintenance of two Shared Vehicle
Parking Spaces for use exclusively by such Shared Vehicles, (with
such parking spaces to be in addition to the minimum parking
spaces required by the Parking Bylaw), on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the General Manager of Engineering Services and
the Director of Legal Services, including the following:
(i) Provide two Shared Vehicle(s) to the development for a
minimum period of three years.
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicles.
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space(s)
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles.
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space(s).
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle.
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the
Director of Legal Services may require and including a
covenant under section 219 of the Land Title Act of
British Columbia, a statutory right of way, or other
instrument satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
securing these conditions.
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a car share
company indicating their willingness to supply car share
vehicles on the site at building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Shared vehicle spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9 m.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services is provided.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 47
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current
application lacks the details to determine if sewer main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including floor area, projected fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer to determine if
sewer system upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any sewer system upgrading that may be required.
(iii) Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right of way.
(iv) Provision of a 1.83 m CIP light broom finish sidewalk with
saw cut joints and a minimum 1.83 m wide sod grass front
boulevard, on 70th Avenue adjacent the site.
(v) Provision of a 1.83 m CIP light broom finish sidewalk with
saw cut joints on Laurel Street.
(vi) Provision of upgraded street lighting on 70th Avenue and
Laurel Street to current standards, including a review of
the existing lighting to determine its adequacy and a
lighting design as required.
(vii) Provision of a standard concrete commercial lane crossing
at the lane west of Laurel Street on the south side of
70th Avenue.
(viii) Provision of a new curb return and curb ramps at the
southwest corner of Laurel Street and 70th Avenue to
current standards.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 48
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features. There will be no
reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead
electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to
the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Environmental Contamination
5. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services, and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on- site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been issued to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 49
Housing Policy and Projects
6. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement securing all residential units as
for-profit affordable rental housing units pursuant to Section
3.1A of the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law for the
longer of 60 years and life of the building, subject to the
following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant.
(ii) A no stratification covenant.
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time.
(iv) That a rent roll be provided indicating the agreed initial
monthly rents for each rental unit when the Housing
Agreement is entered into, and again prior to
development permit issuance.
(v) That the average initial starting monthly rents for each
unit type will be at or below the following proposed
starting rents subject to adjustment as contemplated by
the Vancouver Development Cost Levy-By-law:
Unit Type 8615 Laurel Street
Proposed Average Starting Rents
1-bedroom $1,790
2-bedroom $2,290
3-bedroom $2,890
(vi) That a final rent roll be provided, prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit, to the satisfaction of General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services,
that reflects the agreed initial monthly rents as of
occupancy in order to address potential changes in unit
mix and/or sizes between the rezoning and development
permit issuance, and to allow for the rents to be
increased annually from the time of the public hearing to
initial occupancy, as per the maximum increases
authorized by the Vancouver Development Cost Levy
By-law.
(vii) Compliance with the City-approved Tenant Relocation
Plan, including provision of a final Tenant Relocation
Report prior to issuance of the occupancy permit.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 50
(viii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by
by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the city.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate city official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing
Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
October 3, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 8615 Laurel Street”, the Director
of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement
By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By- law, subject to such
terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of
Legal Services and the General Manager of Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the
City and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of
the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property,
and any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a
condition of rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 51
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer,
shall not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their
authority or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to
exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02345)
7. REZONING: 5110 Cambie Street
An application by Billard Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 5110 Cambie Street from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
six-storey residential building containing a total of 12 dwelling units. A
height of 20.1 metres (66 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.40 are
proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:55 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Robert Billard, Billard Architecture Inc. provided closing comments.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Billard Architecture Inc. on behalf of 1063570 B.C.
Ltd., the registered owners, to rezone 5110 Cambie Street [PID 010-152-288;
Lot 12, Block 840, District Lot 526, Plan 8324] from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 52
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.40 and the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to
20.1 m (66 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey residential building,
containing a total of 12 dwelling units, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
5110 Cambie Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Billard Architecture Inc., on behalf
of 1063570 B.C. Ltd., and stamped October 19, 2016”, provided that the
Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the massing, as follows:
(i) Provide an increased setback of 9.5 ft. at the south
(interior) property line for the east and west ends of the
building (ie. Gridline B to D, and K to N).
(ii) Lower the building height by 2 ft.
Note to Applicant: This may be achieved by lowering the
main floor elevation and/or by reducing floor-to-floor
heights.
(iii) Confirm that the parking ramp entry has sufficient
headroom, accounting for structure and required
clearance for disability vehicles.
Note to Applicant: Should the parking ramp require
further height, a portion of the main floorplan will be
impacted and floor space may be reduced. The main floor
elevation should not be raised.
2. Design development to improve the interface to the public
realm, as follows:
(i) Provide a more neighbourly, inviting and “public”
character for the mini-park.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 53
(ii) Delete the raised walkway and retaining wall in the
interior side yard, and internalize the stair into the
building.
(iii) Provide a minimum 3 ft. landscape buffer in front of the
retaining walls for the raised private patios, along the
west and north property lines.
(iv) Add a landscape buffer between the private patio for unit
TH-5 and the principle building entry.
(v) Add a landscape buffer with a protective curb (i.e. 8”
height) or a planter along the lane edge (Refer to
Landscape Condition 19).
(vi) Relocate the pad-mounted transformer to be adjacent to
the parkade entry.
Note to Applicant: The PMT size and location must adhere
to BC Hydro requirements.
3. Design development to improve the building elevations, as
follows:
(i) Add windows to the south elevation (interior side yard),
particularly at the exit stairs, to present a more
neighbourly interface to the adjacent building.
(ii) Add windows to the east elevation at Level 1 to animate
the lane.
(iii) Improve the visibility of the entries to the
ground-oriented units.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by adding
canopies and/or sidelites, a change in exterior cladding,
or feature lighting.
4. Design development to improve the sustainable design of the
building envelope, as follows:
(i) Consider relocating and refining the angle of the vertical
fins (currently proposed on the west elevation) to
improve passive solar protection.
(ii) Consider increasing the wall to window ratio, particularly
on the west and north elevations.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 54
(iii) Consider solar shading for units (i.e. TH-5) and for
bedrooms (i.e. CD-2, CD-4, CD-6) with unprotected
south-west exposure.
5. Design development to improve the livability of the dwelling
units, as follows:
(i) Improve the privacy for street-fronting bedrooms,
particularly at lower levels.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by raising the
window sills to 3 ft. or by using frosted glazing or metal
screens for the balcony railings.
(ii) Provide sufficient living/dining space relative to the
number of bedrooms in each unit.
Note to Applicant: The living/dining space for units CD-1,
CD-5 and CD-6 is insufficient for the anticipated
household size (i.e. the living space for CD-5 is only 7 ft.
deep). For three-bedroom units, provide furniture layouts
to illustrate living and dining areas to comfortably
accommodate six people.)
(iii) Delete internalized habitable rooms (ie. “dens” without
exterior windows).
(iv) Provide bulk storage for every unit, either in-suite or in
the parkade, per the Bulk Storage bulletin.
Note to Applicant: Storage rooms accessed from common
corridors will count in FSR.
(v) Improve the private and shared outdoor spaces, by:
a. Increasing balconies to minimum 5 ft. clear;
b. Providing a larger common roof deck above Level
6; and
c. Providing opportunities for childrens’ play.
Note to Applicant: The proposed private roof deck at
Level 6 should be deleted. To reduce massing the
common roof deck should be accessed by the elevator
core and one exit stair.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 55
6. Design development to the architectural detailing and materials,
as follows:
(i) Provide a refined colour and material palette, taking
neighbouring views into consideration.
Note to Applicant: The large unbroken areas of exterior
wall that are coloured in solid red or black should be
reconsidered, particularly where they will constitute the
primary view from windows in the adjacent development.
Consider using exterior cladding materials with texture
and visual interest at the pedestrian scale.
(ii) Provide durable materials for exterior cladding and
surfaces, with special consideration to colour fastness.
Note to Applicant: The red colour proposed for the metal
cladding and multiple hard surfaces of the plaza may be
difficult to achieve and maintain.
7. The proposed unit mix, including one two-bedroom unit (8%) and
11 three-bedroom units (92%), is to be included in the
Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.
8. Identification on the architectural and landscape drawings of any
built features intended to create a bird friendly design;
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable, and
provide a design rationale for the features noted. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
9. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) Theft in the underground parking;
(ii) Residential break and enter;
(iii) Mail theft; and
(iv) Mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 56
Landscape Design
10. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted.
The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials
(with common and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities),
paving, walls, railings, light fixtures, site grading and other
landscape features. Plant material should be listed in a Plant List
that is clearly keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan
should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
11. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including planters
on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and
other features. Planter section details must confirm depth of
proposed planting on structures deep enough to accommodate
rootballs of proposed trees well into the future, with dimensions
which exceed BCSLA standard.
12. Provide sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to
public realm interface facing the street, confirming a delineated
private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences
and planters. The location of the underground parking slab
should be included in the section.
13. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen lane
edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a manner which
minimizes their impact on the architectural expression and the
project’s open space and public realm.
14. New proposed street trees should be coordinated with the Park
Board and Engineering, confirmed on the Plant List and noted
“Final species, quantity and spacing to the approval of City
Engineer and Park Board”. Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131)
of Engineering Streets Division regarding street tree spacing and
quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board
regarding tree species.
15. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for
all planters on parkade slab and minimum of hose bibs to be
provided for landscape on grade.
16. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings and all existing light poles should be shown.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 57
17. Design development to the mini-park at the northwest corner to
present a friendlier, more comfortable and inviting space. This
may be achieved by the following:
(i) Deleting the access ramp and allow the space itself to
function as access ramp to the front entry. This would
eliminate the hard edges of the ramp curb;
(ii) Providing a more articulated paving, integrated with
public art which contributes to the public realm, with
more friendly, inviting colours and textures;
(iii) Activating with additional, colourful, diverse planting
beds; and
(iv) Providing a trellis with vines over benches adjacent to
building.
18. Design development to enable the protection of the adjacent
property 3 ft. diameter conifer, being retained by the adjacent
development, allowing a clear root zone protection area of
minimum 18 ft. from the trunk of the tree.
Note to Applicant: This will likely require a revised parkade
setback from the property line. A revised Arborist Report is
required to provide methods of protection for the tree, in
coordination with the representative arborist for the adjacent
development. A Letter of Assurance for arborist supervision
should also be provided, signed and dated by arborist, owner and
contractor, detailing activities that will need to be supervised
and the terms for advance notice for arborist attendance.
19. Provision of a pedestrian friendly experience at the lane edges
by the use of down lighting and more substantial planting at
grade.
Note to Applicant: The lane edge planting should be protected
from vehicles by an 8” high curb.
20. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters to ensure long term viability of the
landscape.
Note to Applicant: Underground parking slabs and retaining walls
may need to be altered to provide adequate depth and
continuous soil volumes. Growing mediums and planting depths
should exceed BCSLA standards.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 58
21. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants to the Plant Pallette.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided
with amenities such as, raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
Sustainability
22. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing
buildings on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition
waste (excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
23. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
24. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 23, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 59
(i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions
standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions
Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
25. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building
without any portion of the service connection above grade within
the road right of way.
26. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site. Current construction practices
regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City utilities at
risk during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring
systems. Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be
sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
27. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation &
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
28. First risers to be setback 1 ft. from the property lines.
29. Clearly show property lines on all plans.
30. Clearly show City building grades on the plans and provide design
grades on both sides of all entries at the property lines clearly
indicating that the entries meet City building grades.
31. Confirmation that the space allocated for the PMT is adequate
and meets BC Hydro standards.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 60
32. Provision of a Landscape Plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for this site.
33. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay,
and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: Where there is a curved ramp, provide
grades 2 ft. from the wall on the inside radius
(Section I.A). The slope and length of the ramp sections
must be shown on the submitted drawings.
(ii) Ramps which have a 15% slope and are exposed to the
weather must be heated and note on plans.
(iii) Provision of the minimum vertical clearance for the main
ramp and security gates.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical
clearance is required for access and maneuvering to all
disability spaces. 2.1 m is noted on drawing A1.04.
(iv) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
(v) Provision of column placement within the parking level to
comply with the requirements of the Engineering Parking
and Loading Design Supplement. A column 2 ft. in length
must be set back 2 ft. from either the opening to or the
end of the parking space. A column 3 ft. long may be set
back 1 ft.
(vi) Dimension all columns encroaching into parking stalls.
(vii) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 61
Technical Analysis
34. Confirmation that the exiting requirements have been met per
the Vancouver Building By-law.
Note to Applicant: A building code consultant is suggested to
review the requirements of the VBBL with respect to, but not
limited to, exiting and accessibility.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Provision of a statutory right-of-way (SRW) for public use of the
mini-park located on private property (at the corner of
35th Avenue and Cambie Street).
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of a stormwater management plan that controls
site flows equivalent to a 60% impervious site at the 1 in
5 return period storm. Provision of a report or

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 62
management plan by a registered professional
demonstrating that post development stormwater runoff
flowrate will meet the above noted requirement. Legal
arrangements may be required to ensure on-going
operations of certain stormwater storage systems.
(iii) Provision of a corner bulge on 35th Avenue and Cambie
Street adjacent the site. Work to include upgrading the
curb return and curb ramps at the 35th Avenue and
Cambie Street corner and the design is to include
rainwater management design features.
(iv) Provision of 100% of funding to the satisfaction of General
Manager of Engineering Services for the future
construction of protected bike lanes and infrastructure
improvements on Cambie Street adjacent to the site.
Improvements will generally include the following:
a. New concrete curb and gutter;
b. Raised protected bike lane;
c. Concrete sidewalk;
d. Curb ramps where necessary;
e. Upgraded street lighting to LED standard;
f. Pedestrian scale lighting; and
g. Adjustment to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed street improvements.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements
are subject to completion and adoption of the Cambie
Corridor Public Realm Plan.
(v) Provision of a minimum 2.13 m (7 ft.) wide CIP light
broom finish concrete sidewalk with saw cut joints on
35th Avenue and Cambie Street adjacent the site.
(vi) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
3. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 63
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are
to be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features. In addition, there will
be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead
electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to
the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical plant.
Please confirm that this space has been allocated and agreement
between both parties has been met.
Environmental Contamination
4. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
5. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $814,637,
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be
made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 64
City and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The $814,637 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $407,318 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Cambie Corridor Plan area;
(ii) $325,855 (40%) toward childcare and community facilities
in and around the Cambie Corridor Plan area; and
(iii) $81,464 (10%) to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to
enable heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval, the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 5110 Cambie Street”.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 65
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02346)
8. REZONING: 1920 Southwest Marine Drive (Casa Mia)
An application by IBI Group was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1920 Southwest Marine Drive from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit retention,
reuse and designation of the existing heritage “A” listed Casa Mia estate
building, and development of a three-storey (two storeys above grade)
addition; and to permit the entire structure to be used as a 90-bed
Community Care Facility for seniors. An FSR of 0.93 is proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
* * * * *
At 9 pm, prior to hearing the staff presentation on Item 8, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the hearing of speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQURIED MAJORITY
* * * * *
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 66
Applicant Comments
Gavin MacIntosh, The Care Group, provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 14 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 6 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence in the “other” category.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in general support of the application:
Colleen McGuinness, Chair, Seniors’ Advisory Committee
Barbara Aidelbaum
Edwin Lee
Michael Klassen
Richard Wittstock
Andrea Krombein
Katherine Reichert, ARKS Housing Committee Chair
John Leathley
Moreen Cobb
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:44 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing comments and, along with
Engineering Services staff, Peter Lang, IBI Group, and the registered owner, responded to
questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by IBI Group, on behalf of Maureen Mae McIntosh and Roy
Alison McIntosh, the registered owners, and The Care Group, to rezone
1920 Southwest Marine Drive [PID: 004-174-011; Lot 2, Blocks 12, O and R,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 67
District Lot 317, Plan 19773] from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) to a CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR)
from 0.70 to 0.93 for an addition to the heritage “A” listed Casa Mia estate
building to permit the entire structure to be used as a 90-bed Community Care
Facility for seniors, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated October 3, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation:
1920 Southwest Marine Drive (Casa Mia)”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by IBI Group, and stamped “Received
City Planning Department, April 21, 2017”, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of development when
approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve access to natural light and views
from the basement level dwelling units including the following
provisions:
(i) Detailed drawings with surveyed existing finished floor
elevations demonstrating the minimum achievable depth
for below grade habitable spaces;
(ii) Sloping or terracing grades and planters away from
windows and patios to the greatest extent practical;
(iii) Annotation on plans and sections demonstrating that each
below grade dwelling unit is provided with a window
complying with regulations for horizontal angle of
daylight to a minimum distance of 3.7 m (12 ft.); and
(iv) Consideration to raise the finished floor elevation of the
basement level to improve access to daylight and views.
Note to Applicant: These strategies may include interior sloped
walk ways or corridors, over-framed floor structures, deeper
patios and planters, and greater building height. An increase in
maximum building height above 9.5 m (31 ft.) up to 10.4 m
(34 ft.) may only be considered to improve access to daylight
and views for the basement level.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 68
2. Design development to provide clearer wayfinding and hierarchy
for the main entrance.
Note to Applicant: This may be achieved by integrating the
architectural expression of the entrance canopy with the existing
heritage auto court walls and pillars, by extending the weather
protection to the passenger loading area, and by provision of
other wayfinding devices such as site lighting and paving
patterns. Refer to Landscape Condition 13.
3. Design development to the architectural expression of the new
addition to be more compatible and respectful of the existing
heritage character and features including exploration the
following design strategies:
(i) Articulate the connection between new and existing
buildings as a recessed and subdued predominantly glazed
structure;
(ii) Reflect the finer grain scale, proportions and level of
detail of Casa Mia in the new development;
(iii) Consider referencing existing fenestration proportions,
operation, and divided lights;
(iv) Consideration of a darker colour scheme on the new
development that reads as background to the Casa Mia;
and
(v) Consideration for borrowing the terracotta colour for new
accent elements at the roof top and parapet.
4. Design development to provide privacy and visual separation for
basement dwelling units facing the sunken courtyard.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved with planters and other
landscape screening devices as well as by programming the more
active use and circulation spaces toward the centre of the
courtyard.
5. Design development to identify on the architectural and
landscape drawings built and landscaped features intended to
create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Consider including bird friendly plants on the
plant palette, enabling bird habitat conservation and bird
habitat promotion. Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable, and
provide a design rationale for the features noted. For more

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 69
information, see the guidelines at:
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
6. Confirmation that the elevator overrun and other roof top
appurtenances are absolutely minimized in height and
appearance of bulk and massing.
Note to Applicant: Consider referencing the Casa Mia pitched
roof forms, such as the pyramidal roof above the play room, as
devices to reduce the appearance of roof top bulk and massing
as well as creating distinct architectural elements.
7. Consider provision of permanent exterior shade and weather
protection structures.
Note to Applicant: Intent is to improve comfort for a greater
range of outdoor conditions. Permanent structures in the rear
yard and sunken courtyard should be compatible and respectful
of the existing architecture. Permanent structures on the roof
top should only be provided in compliance with Section 10.11 of
the Zoning and Development By-Law and the Bulletin for
Roof-Mounted Energy Technologies and Green Roofs –
Discretionary Height Increases.
8. Provide annotation on elevation drawings of materials and
products for all exterior surfaces including colours, finishes, and
intended performance objectives such as energy conservation
strategies and weather protection.
Note to Applicant: Intent is to maintain the proposed
high-quality design and materiality through subsequent stages.
This may also include further explorations to improve
performance including glazing, solar shading devices, durable
materials, canopies and lighting. All significant surfaces should
be labelled including soffits and wall returns. The use of
cementitious panel material such as hardi-siding is not
considered to be a high quality material.
9. Provide site lighting plan indicating fixture types, locations, and
illumination levels.
Note to Applicant: Site lighting should be integrated into the site
and building design. The site lighting plan should indicate
lighting strategies for paths and exits, wayfinding, security,
decoration, and any other exterior light fixtures. For exterior
lighting, LED sources are encouraged. Exterior lights should be
oriented away from adjacent residential properties and be

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 70
provided on dimmable switches. Review opportunities to utilize
lighting design standards and guidelines that reduce negative
impacts to birds and other wildlife.
Sustainability
10. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of
LEED® Gold rating, with a minimum of 63 points in the LEED®
rating system, 1 point each for water efficiency and stormwater
management, and a minimum of 6 points under Optimize Energy
Performance.
Note to Applicant: Provide a LEED® checklist and sustainable
design strategy outlining how the proposed points will be
achieved, a letter of confirmation from an accredited
professional confirming that the building has been designed to
meet these goals, and a receipt including registration number
from the CaGBC. The checklist, registration number and strategy
should be incorporated into the drawing set. Application for
certification of the project will also be required under the
policy. Changes to the existing building should be considered
with respect to improved energy performance and recycled
materials and be included in the heritage conservation plan and
documentation.
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
11. Provisions for Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design
(CPTED) including:
(i) Particular regard for mischief in alcoves and vandalism
such as graffiti; and
(ii) Encouraging natural visual surveillance.
Note to Applicant: Below grade exterior spaces such as
sunken patios, exit stairs, light wells, and other similar
conditions, should be considered with regard to security,
access, path lighting and location of windows that
encourage natural visual surveillance.
12. Design development to improve visibility and security in the
underground parking in accordance with the Parking By-law
including:
(i) Overhead lighting and step lights at exit stairs and doors;
(ii) 24 hour lights and walls painted white; and
(iii) Visibility at doors, lobbies, stairs and other access routes.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 71
Landscape
13. Design development to improve the main entry sequencing and
sense of arrival.
Note to Applicant: Currently the prominence of existing Porte
Cochere still signals “front entry”, with the new main entry as
secondary. This condition can be improved by special paving,
more significant and attractive planting, bringing continuity
along the right side of the drive to direct focus on the doorway,
with additional, colourful planting flanking both sides of the
actual entry.
14. Design development to the outdoor spaces, to be more
articulated and usable throughout the whole landscape.
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by additional seating
and permanent shading of outdoor spaces, significantly more
planting beds to define areas and provision of additional, larger
replacement trees planted on free grade (rather than over
structure).
15. Design development to the sunken courtyard to provide
opportunities for walking and wandering throughout the grounds.
Note to Applicant: If necessary for safety of Alzheimer patients,
this could include control gates.
16. Design development to the rooftop green roof terrace to provide
privacy to adjacent property at the north, by providing wider
planting beds planted with taller woody evergreen shrubs at the
north edge.
17. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters over structure, to ensure long term
viability of the landscape.
Note to Applicant: Underground parking slabs and retaining walls
may need to be altered to provide adequate depth and
continuous soil volumes. Growing mediums and planting depths
should exceed BCSLA standard. A section through the planted
areas should be provided at the time of development permit
application, to show adequate depth of soil for the type of trees
proposed in order to allow for better root development and
therefore healthier trees in the future.
18. The project has high heritage value and the landscape design
respects that. It also presents a highly visible formal image. Due
to this concept, a landscape management plan is required,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 72
recommending and ensuring the on-going maintenance necessary
to sustain this level of development will be available into the
future.
Note to Applicant: This can be in memo form as a detailed letter
of assurance, specifying the schedule for maintenance
requirements and commitment to them, signed and dated by
both landscape professional and property owner.
Social Policy
19. In collaboration with Vancouver Coastal Health, the applicant
must submit a design for the community care facility that meets
the “Design Guidelines: Complex Residential Care
Developments” and the City of Vancouver’s Community “Care
Facility Guidelines – Class B” to the approval of Vancouver
Coastal Health.
20. That the community care facility aims to maintain or increase
the number of public and privately funded beds in future; any
potential reduction in the number of beds will be subject to
approval of the General Manager of Community Services, in
consultation with Vancouver Coastal Health.
Engineering
21. Parking, loading and bicycle spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the
Vancouver Parking By-Law. Note to Applicant: The community
care facility requires three disability parking spaces
(section 4.8.4(b) of the parking By-law).
Note to Applicant: This can be achieved by reducing standard
spaces and using the double count for disability spaces to make
up for the loss of standard spaces.
22. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
23. Clarification of any proposed changes to the existing encroaching
wall. Any additions to the wall and other related features not
currently the subject of the registered encroachment agreement

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 73
for the site are to be relocated to private property or removed
from the plans.
24. A crossing application is required. Note the new crossing design
may result in modification, replacement or removal of the
existing concrete curb returns that lead to the main entry and
reconfiguration of the westerly paved crossing to align with the
opening in the fence.
25. Confirmation that the garbage and recycling space provision is
adequate for the sites operations. Please review the Engineering
garbage and recycle supplement for advice.
26. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s).
27. Design development to provide space for scooter parking.
28. Confirmation that the main gate will be open to traffic during
business/visiting hours such that cars and trucks will not have to
stop at the gate to gain access and block the bike route or
roadway. Should the gate need to be closed then adjustment to
the gate location will be necessary to ensure the largest vehicle
clears the bikeway.
29. Provide a signal system for the single ramp – a qualified
transportation engineer must provide details on the system and
locations of all lights, signs and detection devices on the plans. A
signed and sealed report from the qualified transportation
engineer is required.
30. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of design elevations within the parking and
loading areas to calculate the slope and crossfall.
Note to Applicant: Note the slope and crossfall on the
drawings as it must not exceed 5%.
(ii) Dimension and label all parking, loading and passenger
spaces on drawings A1.01 and A1.02.
(iii) Provision of a 12 ft. by 12 ft. corner cut on the north side
of the ramp at elevation 54.8 ft. to achieve 2-way flow.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 74
(iv) Provision minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp,
and security gates.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical
clearance is required for access and maneuvering to all
disability spaces. Provide an additional section drawing
showing the vertical clearance for the porte cochere.
(v) Relocate disability stalls to stalls 1-3.
(vi) Provision of independent access for the porte cochere
and the Class B passenger space.
Note to Applicant: Provide a maneuvering diagram
showing the vehicle maneuvering to access the porte
cochere with the Class B passenger space occupied to
confirm. Diagram A1.02 is showing 7 ft. drive aisle width
under the porte cochere and typically 12 ft. is required.
(vii) Provision of independent Class A and Class B passenger
spaces.
Note to Applicant: Drawing A1.00 shows both spaces
overlapped.
(viii) Provision of improved maneuvering for the Class B
passenger space.
Note to Applicant: The Appendix B of the Traffic Study
dated February 2017 shows the HandyDart maneuvering
which shows the vehicle stopping in the maneuvering
aisle and not the in the Class B passenger space. The curb
or pavement edge design adjacent to the Class B
passenger space shown in the traffic study is different
than the architectural drawings.
31. Development of a transportation management plan to provide
guidance for how circulation, parking, pick-up and drop-off
activity and deliveries will be managed.
Note to Applicant: Transportation management plan should
include recommendations from Traffic Impact Study including:
(i) Encouraging off-peak travel to and from the site;
(ii) Provision of on-site bicycle and end-of-trip facilities;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 75
(iii) Priority parking for staff who carpool;
(iv) Identification of a Loading Area Manager to be
responsible for managing and coordinating delivery
schedules and monitoring on-site loading activities and
compliance; and
(v) Provision of a loading operation document to all vendors
providing expected loading operations on site.
32. Provision of the following revisions as per the recommendations
of the Traffic Study by MMM dated February, 2017:
(i) Installing engineering measures including signage and
mirrors to ensure traffic exiting the site to yield to
oncoming traffic entering from Southwest Marine Drive to
prevent queuing on Southwest Marine Drive.
Geotechnical
33. A geotechnical assessment for the proposed development is to
be submitted to the satisfaction of Chief Building Official.
Note to Applicant: The site and adjoining area have been
identified as having potential development related slope
instability. A report shall be undertaken in accordance with
APEGBC’s Guidelines for Legislated Landslide Assessments for
Proposed Residential Developments in BC. This report should be
provided at the development permit stage so that any
modifications or additional requirements, as determined by the
Chief Building Official, can be incorporated at the time of
building permit application.
Heritage
34. All work is to be consistent with the Conservation Plan approved
for the project to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning.
Note to Applicant: The Conservation Plan is to include a
Maintenance Plan given the unique features of the heritage
building and issues related to its long term maintenance and
repair.
Technical Review
35. Correction of Height calculation on Sheet A0.06.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 76
Note to Applicant: The calculation of height is interpolated from
the 4 corners of the site, not internal building grades along the
property line.
36. Provision of more detailed unit layouts for the existing building.
Note to Applicant: It appears that the existing mansion will
house private care units, and thus, it is required to review the
suite layouts for livability issues.
37. Correction and coordination of Floor Area calculations.
Note to Applicant: There are variations between the Area
Overlay and tables on A0.01.
38. Correction of Bicycle parking “Class A” calculation.
Note to Applicant: 1 space for every 100 beds is required; thus, 1
space is required.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Engineering Services and the
Approving Office, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Decommissioning of the intake pipe for a fuel oil tank in a cavity
under City road and release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement
95974H and extension agreement L79168 prior to issuance of any
related occupancy permit.
Note to Applicant: Written confirmation from a registered
professional is required certifying that decommissioning of the
intake pipe has taken place and provision of photographic
evidence will be required. Please contact Rodel Arroyo
(604-873-7373) of the City’s Utility Branch should there be any
additional questions regarding the oil intake removal
requirements.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 77
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of a stormwater and rainwater management
plan that meets the objectives of the Citywide Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan and complies with the Sewer
and Water Course By-law. The plan shall achieve the
following objectives:
a. Retain or infiltrate the 6-month storm event
volume (24 mm) onsite;
b. Treat the 2-year event (48 mm) onsite; and
c. Maintain the pre-development 5 year storm event
rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize
the 2014 IDF curve, whereas the post development
estimate shall use the 2100 IDF curve to account
for climate change.
Note to Applicant: Legal arrangements may be
required to ensure on-going operations of certain
stormwater storage systems.
(iii) Provision of all utility services to be underground from
the closest existing suitable service point. All electrical
services to the site must be primary with all electrical
plant, which include but not limited to System Vista,
Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and
kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located
on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary
voltage from the existing overhead electrical network on
the street right-of- way. Any alterations to the existing

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 78
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate
this development will require approval by the Utilities
Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation
with B.C. Hydro that an area has been defined within the
development footprint to accommodate such electrical
plant. Please confirm that this space has been allocated
and agreement between both parties has been met.
(iv) Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right of way.
(v) Provision of a minimum 1.53 m (5 ft.) CIP light broom
finish concrete sidewalk with saw cut joints on Southwest
Marine Drive between the east property line of the site
and the intersection of 64th Avenue and Southwest
Marine Drive and a minimum 1.5 m wide concrete
sidewalk connection from the western walkway property
line to the proposed new City sidewalk on Southwest
Marine Drive.
(vi) Provision of upgraded street lighting at the intersection
of Southwest Marine Drive and 64th Avenue to current
standards including a review of the existing lighting to
determine its adequacy and a lighting design as required.
(vii) Provision of intersection improvements at Southwest
Marine Drive and 64th Avenue to facilitate pedestrians
crossing Southwest Marine Drive. A new curb ramp, drop
curb and connecting sidewalks at the north east corner of
64th and Southwest Marine Drive and asphalt connection
from the proposed City sidewalk on Southwest Marine
Drive to the road edge are required.
(viii) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site and for the length of proposed new
sidewalk on Southwest Marine Drive that meet current
City standards. Duct banks are to consist of electrical and
communication ducts sized to meet City needs in a
configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services and in conformance with applicable
electrical codes and regulations. A detailed design will be
required prior to the start of any associated street work.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 79
Note to Applicant: As-constructed documentation will be
required that includes photographic and measured
evidence of the installed number of conduits, their final
locations and depths.
Heritage
3. The owners will enter into a Heritage Restoration Covenant
(219 Covenant), which will provide for the continuing protection
of Casa Mia at 1920 Southwest Marine Drive (the heritage
building) and completion of the agreed upon rehabilitation work,
and related matters including a waiver of any claim for
compensation, to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning and
the Director of Legal Services. The agreement is to be signed by
the owners prior to enactment of the Heritage Designation
By- law and will be registered in the Land Title Office to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to the CD-1
By-law enactment.
Note to Applicant: please contact James Boldt in the Heritage
Group at james.boldt@vancouver.ca regarding the Heritage
Restoration Covenant.
4. The Heritage Designation By-law, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated October 3, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation: 1920 Southwest
Marine Drive (Casa Mia)”, is brought forward to Council for
enactment.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
5. Pay to the City the Community Amenity Contribution of $44,850
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be
made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the
City and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services, and is allocated for transportation improvements
to support walking, cycling or transit in the Arbutus
Ridge/Kerrisdale/Shaughnessy Community Vision area or Marpole
Community Plan area.
Soils
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 80
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and As required by the Manager
of Environmental Planning and the Director of Legal
Services in their discretion, do all things and/or enter
into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter;
and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219
of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a
by-law to designate the heritage building known as “Casa Mia” at 1920
Southwest Marine Drive [PID: 004- 174-011; Lot 2, Blocks 12, O and R, District
Lot 317, Plan 19773], listed in the “A” evaluation category of the Vancouver
Heritage Register, as protected heritage property.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 14, 2017 81
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval, the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated October 3, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning and Heritage Designation:
1920 Southwest Marine Drive (Casa Mia)”.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02348)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:08 pm.
* * * * *