REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
NOVEMBER 1, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was
held on Wednesday, November 1, 2017, at 9:36 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor,
City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Andrea Reimer, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck*
Councillor Elizabeth Ball,* Vice-Chair
Councillor Hector Bremner*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal*
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT items 3, 8, 9 and 10 be adopted on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Ball, Deal and the Mayor absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 2
1. Renewable City Strategy Update
October 24, 2017
The General Manager and staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and Planning
provided a presentation and, along with General Manager of Engineering Services, responded
to questions.
The Committee heard from eight speakers in support of the recommendations.
* * * * *
At 11:37 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Renewable City Action Plan, as summarized in
Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated October 24, 2017, entitled
“Renewable City Strategy Update”, and direct staff to begin its
implementation.
B. THAT staff report back in approximately five years (2022) with an overall
review of the Renewable City Action Plan and annual progress updates
concurrent with Greenest City Action Plan annual reporting.
carried
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Bremner
THAT Council refer the Renewable City Action Plan back to staff and ask staff to
report back to Council within sixty days with an updated budget on implementation.
LOST (Vote No. 02289)
(Councillors Carr, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer and the Mayor opposed)
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote)
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on the original motion.
The referral motion having lost, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote Nos. 02290 and
02291), with Councillors Affleck, Ball, Bremner and De Genova opposed to A and Councillor
Stevenson absent for the vote.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 3
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:29 pm and reconvened at 1:54 pm.
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee vary the order of the agenda to deal with items 4 and 6 next.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillors Affleck, Stevenson and the Mayor absent for the vote)
Note: For clarity, the following agenda items are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
4. Report Back on Energy Efficiency Updates to Vancouver’s Building By-Law for
Low-Rise Multi-family Residential Buildings
October 23, 2017
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make an application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law generally as presented in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
October 23, 2017, entitled “Report Back on Energy Efficiency Updates to
Vancouver’s Building By-Law for Low-Rise Multi-family Residential Buildings”, to
amend Section 10.33 to update floor area exclusions for exterior wall
thickness, and that the application be referred to a public hearing.
B. THAT staff be directed to prepare and publish a bulletin clarifying upgrade
options allowed under the Building By-law that provide flexibility for four to six
storey multifamily residential.
C. THAT staff be directed to recommend amendments to the Building By-law to
provide greater flexibility in renovations of residential heritage or character
buildings of three storeys or less; and to publish a guide for homeowners in
consultation with the Vancouver Heritage Foundation.
D. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
By-law amendments referred to in A above, generally in accordance with

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 4
Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated October 23, 2017, entitled
“Report Back on Energy Efficiency Updates to Vancouver’s Building By-Law for
Low-Rise Multi-family Residential Buildings”, for consideration at Public
Hearing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02292)
6. Water Conservation Program Update
October 24, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive for information the progress update for the City’s water
conservation program and preliminary projection of Metro Vancouver storage
supply limitations.
B. THAT Council direct staff to continue with planned water conservation
programs to increase water efficiency across all sectors through to 2020.
C. THAT Council direct staff to broaden the water conservation program beyond
drinking water efficiency to further emphasize planning for long-term water
resilience and integrated water resource strategies that reduce potable water
consumption through the expansion of non-potable water resources such as:
(1) rainwater harvest and reuse;
(2) grey/blackwater harvest and re-use; and
(3) groundwater resources, to meet non-potable water appropriate
uses.
D. THAT Council direct staff to review the current water metering policy and
develop implementation options including impacts to cost, resources, and
affordability following Metro Vancouver’s report on a regional assessment of
residential water metering.
E. THAT Council direct staff to report back in 2019 with details on an expanded
comprehensive water conservation plan.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02293)
11. Historical Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver
October 20, 2017
At the Regular Council meeting on October 31, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred this
matter to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
November 1, 2017, to hear from speakers, starting at 2 pm.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 5
The Committee heard from nine speakers in support of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council adopt the attached “Preliminary Research on Historical
Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver” report which provides
context and background for the initiative. (Appendix 1: “Preliminary Research
on Historical Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver” of the
Administrative Report dated October 20, 2017, entitled “Historical
Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver”).
B. THAT Council adopt Recommendation #1 of the Historical Discrimination
Against Chinese People (HDC) Advisory Group that requests a public
acknowledgement and a formal apology for past legislation, regulations and
policies of previous Vancouver City Councils that discriminated against
residents of Chinese descent, (Appendix 2: “HDC Project Overview and
Recommendations” of the Administrative Report dated October 20, 2017,
entitled “Historical Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver”);
FURTHER THAT Council adopt the draft apology text (in English and Chinese)
prepared by the HDC Advisory group as the basis for Council’s public
acknowledgement and apology subject to any changes that Council may request
or subject to the final text being approved by the General Manager, Community
Services (Appendix 3: “Draft Apology” of the above-noted report).
C. THAT the apology in its Chinese version be delivered in a dialect that was
spoken by early Chinese residents, as they were the ones most affected by
these legislation, regulations and policies.
D. THAT, pending Council’s approval of B above, Council direct staff to organize
an Acknowledgement and Apology event.
E. THAT Council receive the Historical Discrimination Against Chinese People
Advisory Group’s Recommendation #2, including the twelve priority actions,
and request a staff report back on the feasibility, scope, staffing and resource
requirements in implementing the Recommendation and Priority Actions
(Appendix 2: “HDC Project Overview and Recommendations” of the
Administrative Report dated October 20, 2017, entitled “Historical
Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver”).
F. THAT Council offer thanks to members of the Historical Discrimination Against
Chinese People Advisory Group for their significant and enduring contribution
towards the initiative (Appendix 4: “HDC Advisory Group Members” of the
Administrative Report dated October 20, 2017, entitled “Historical
Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver”).
G. THAT City Council endorse initiating a UNESCO Heritage Site application for
Vancouver Chinatown and;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 6
 write a letter to the Honourable Melanie Joly, Minister of Canadian
Heritage, and Premier John Horgan requesting their support; and
 write a letter to the Honourable Catherine McKenna, Minister of the
Environment who is responsible for Parks Canada, requesting her
permission to put Vancouver Chinatown into Parks Canada Tentative
Heritage Site list as a late application.
H. THAT City staff organize official apology events in April 2018, using the spoken
Chinese dialect of Toishanese but ensuring that all written materials be
translated into traditional and simplified Chinese script.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02294)
12. Report Back on Seniors Centre in South Vancouver / Sunset Area
October 3, 2017
At the Regular Council meeting on October 31, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred this
matter to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
November 1, 2017, to hear from speakers after the conclusion of item 11.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the recommendations.
Real Estate and Facilities Management staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council support the development and construction of a Seniors’ Centre of
at least 10,000 square feet to be located adjacent to the existing Sunset
Community Centre.
B. THAT Council direct staff to pursue funding opportunities to cost-share the
Sunset Seniors Centre project, currently estimated to cost up to $10 million,
with the Federal and Provincial governments, and report back to Council.
amended
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 4:38 pm and reconvened at 4:45 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 7
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as C:
C. THAT Council direct staff to form an advisory group for the Sunset
Seniors Centre Project, including representatives from the Vancouver
Park Board, the Sunset Community Centre Association and the Seniors
Advisory Committee.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the words “an advisory group” be struck and replaced with “a building
committee”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02295)
(Councillors Jang and Stevenson opposed)
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the following be added at the end:
Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee and LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02296)
(Councillors Carr and Jang opposed)
The amendments to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED with Councillors Jang and Stevenson opposed (Vote No. 02297).
The amendments having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Vote No. 02298).
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
A. THAT Council support development and the construction of a Seniors’ Centre of
at least 10,000 square feet to be located adjacent to the existing Sunset
Community Centre.
B. THAT Council direct staff to pursue funding opportunities to cost-share the
Sunset Seniors Centre project, currently estimated to cost up to $10 million,
with the Federal and Provincial governments and report back to Council.
C. THAT Council direct staff to form a building committee for the Sunset Seniors
Centre Project, including representatives from the Vancouver Park Board, the
Sunset Community Centre Association, Seniors Advisory Committee, Persons
with Disabilities Advisory Committee and LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 8
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee vary the order of the agenda to deal with item 7 next.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Bremner absent for the vote)
* * * * *
7. 2017 Q3 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
October 18, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve an increase of $5.8 million to the 2015-2018 Capital
Plan, as outlined in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
October 18, 2017, entitled “2017 Q3 Capital Budget Adjustments and
Closeouts”.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve budget and funding
adjustments totaling a net increase of $6.4 million to the Multi-Year Capital
Projects Budget
C. THAT, subject to approval of A and B above, Council approve a net decrease of
$37.1 million to the 2017 Capital Expenditure Budget, as outlined in Appendix A
of the Administrative Report dated October 18, 2017, entitled “2017 Q3 Capital
Budget Adjustments and Closeouts”.
D. THAT, as part of the quarterly Capital Budget closeout process, Council
approve the closeout of seven completed capital projects with variances
exceeding both $50,000 and 15% of the approved Multi-Year Capital Projects
Budget as outlined in Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated
October 18, 2017, entitled “2017 Q3 Capital Budget Adjustments and
Closeouts”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02299)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:25 pm and reconvened at 5:54 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 9
2. Zero Carbon Fleets Update
The General Manager and staff from Engineering Services presented on this matter and
responded to questions.
3. Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive House Buildings
October 2, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law
to allow for relaxations to floor area, height, rear yard, and building depth
requirements for buildings that meet the Passive House standard and achieve
certification, as set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive House
Buildings”, and that the application be referred to Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare
the necessary amendments to the by-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT Vancouver’s Building By-law be amended to alter requirements for solar
shades, to take effect March 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at
the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the amendment to Vancouver’s Building By-law, generally in
accordance with Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated
October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive House
Buildings”.
C. THAT the Encroachment By-law be amended to alter requirements for solar
shades, generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Administrative Report
dated October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive
House Buildings”, to take effect March 1, 2018;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at
the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the amendment to the Encroachment By-law, generally in accordance
with Appendix C of the above-noted report.
D. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law in A above, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council’s adoption, at the time
of enactment of the by-law amendments, the “Passive House – Guidelines for
Larger Projects” generally as set out in Appendix D of the Administrative
Report dated October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing Regulatory Barriers to
Passive House Buildings”, and the “Passive House – Guidelines for Residences in

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 10
RS Districts”, generally as set out in Appendix E of the Administrative Report
dated October 2, 2017, entitled “Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive
House Buildings”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02301)
(Councillors Ball, Deal and the Mayor absent for the vote)
5. Rain City Strategy – A Green Infrastructure and Urban Rainwater Management
Initiative
October 13, 2017
Engineering Services staff provided a presentation and responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council amend the vision and goals of Vancouver’s Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan and Green Infrastructure Strategy, as described in the
Administrative Report dated October 13, 2017, entitled “Rain City Strategy – A Green
Infrastructure and Urban Rainwater Management Initiative”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02300)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
8. 2017 Electrical By-law Housekeeping Amendments
October 24, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council adopt, in principle, the proposed amendments to the Electrical By-law
presented in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated October 24, 2017, entitled
“2017 Electrical By-law Housekeeping Amendments”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment a by-law to amend the Electrical By-law in accordance with the above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02302)
(Councillors Ball, Deal and the Mayor absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 11
9. Miscellaneous Building By-law Housekeeping and Residential Safety Improvements
October 24, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle the adoption of Revisions 10 and 11 to the
2012 British Columbia Building Code, being Ministerial Orders M066 and M158 as
amendments to the Building By-law, with the necessary modifications to
incorporate those revisions with the “Unique to Vancouver” provisions in the
Building By-law as attached in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
October 24, 2017, entitled, “Miscellaneous Building By-law Housekeeping and
Residential Safety Improvements”.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward the
necessary by-law amendments for enactment by Council, generally in
accordance with A above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02303)
(Councillors Ball, Deal and the Mayor absent for the vote)
10. Contract Award for Supply of Group Benefits Administration Services
October 23, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
Chief Human Resources Officer, City’s Director of Legal Services, and the City’s
Chief Purchasing Official and enter into three separate contracts with Green
Shield Canada, Sun Life Financial and SSQ Financial Group for Group Benefits
Administration Services, each for a term of five (5) years with an option to
extend for five (5) additional one (1) year terms, with a total estimated
contract value (based on projected claims for a five year period (Y2018 through
Y2022) of $14,774,557, plus applicable taxes, to be funded through the
approved Salary and Benefits Budget.
List of Contracts: (Estimated amounts for the contract terms, based on
projected claims, are shown):
Contract No. 1: Green Shield Canada (“Green Shield”) – Claims
Administration for Extended Health and Dental Benefits - $7,203,174;
Contract No. 2: Sun Life Financial Inc. (“Sun Life Financial”) – Life
Insurance - $6,955,435; and
Contract No. 3: SSQ Life Insurance Company Inc. (“SSQ Financial Group”) –
Critical Illness Insurance - $615,948.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy on Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 12
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and Chief Human
Resources Officer be authorized to execute on behalf of the City the contracts
contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of
A and B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized
signatories of the City.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02304)
(Councillors Ball, Deal and the Mayor absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 7:05 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
NOVEMBER 1, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
November 1, 2017, at 7:06 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the
recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Hector Bremner
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
November 1, 2017
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Renewable City Strategy Update
2. Zero Carbon Fleets Update
3. Removing Regulatory Barriers to Passive House Buildings
4. Report Back on Energy Efficiency Updates to Vancouver’s Building By-Law for
Low-Rise Multi-family Residential Buildings
5. Rain City Strategy – A Green Infrastructure and Urban Rainwater Management Initiative
6. Water Conservation Program Update
7. 2017 Q3 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
8. 2017 Electrical By-law Housekeeping Amendments
9. Miscellaneous Building By-law Housekeeping and Residential Safety Improvements
10. Contract Award for Supply of Group Benefits Administration Services

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 1, 2017 2
11. Historical Discrimination Against Chinese People in Vancouver
12. Report Back on Seniors Centre in South Vancouver/Sunset Area
Items 1 to 12
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities at its meeting of November 1, 2017, as contained in
items 1 to 12, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 7:06 pm.
* * * * *