PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
OCTOBER 24 AND 26, 2017
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, October 24, 2017, at 6:07 pm,
in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the Public Hearing recessed and
reconvened on Thursday, October 26, 2017, at 6:08 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Medical Leave – October 26, 2017)
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang (Medical Leave – October 26, 2017)
Councillor Raymond Louie (Medical Leave – October 26, 2017)
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, the Mayor in the Chair,
to consider proposed amendments to the zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and the Mayor
opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, October 24 and 26, 2017 2
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Regulation Short-Term Rentals in Vancouver
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to introduce regulations for
Short-Term Rentals (STR). The proposed regulations would allow residents
to conduct short-term rentals in their Principal Residence Unit, provided a
business licence is obtained.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated October 17, 2017, from the General Manager,
Development, Buildings and Licensing, advising that Legal Services had posted drafts of the
proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law, Licence By-law and Ticket
Offences By-law, generally in accordance with the Policy Report dated July 5, 2017, entitled
“Regulating Short-Term Rentals in Vancouver”. Since referral, staff recommended the
following minor changes and additions to the proposed regulations explained in the
Memorandum.
Maintaining the Existing “Bed and Breakfast” Business Licence
Bed and Breakfast Operators currently must provide breakfast for guests, reside in the
premises throughout the stay, and supply off-street parking – requirements which are not
proposed for the new Short-Term Rental Operator business licence. Bed and Breakfasts must
be zoned accordingly, and meet enhanced fire standards compared to residential homes. In
addition, Bed and Breakfasts may currently offer two separate acccommodations, whereas
the proposed Short-Term Rental Operator business licence allows only one rental
accommodation per licence.
The July 5, 2017, Policy Report stated that “the existing ‘Bed and Breakfast’ business licence
would be replaced with the ‘Short-Term Rental Operator’ business licence”, and that
“proposed short-term rental regulations would replace existing regulations governing the
operations of traditional Bed and Breakfasts”. The report also stated that existing Bed and
Breakfast Operators could continue offering two accommodations if they applied for an
exemption.
After additional analysis and deliberation, staff recommended maintaining the existing Bed
and Breakfast business licence to:
 Provide the option for existing Bed and Breakfast Operators to keep their current
business licence if preferred;
 Avoid licence condition exemptions for existing Bed and Breakfast Operators who offer
two separate accommodations;
 Avoid non-conformance issues related to existing by-laws; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, October 24 and 26, 2017 3
 Reflect that traditional Bed and Breakfasts may follow a different business model than
the emergent short-term rental accommodation market.
The posted by-law amendments maintain the Bed and Breakfast business licence, providing
existing Bed and Breakfast Operators with a choice of whether to keep their current licence,
or apply for the Short-Term Rental Operator business licence and comply with the associated
requirements (which include a restriction to one accommodation per licence without
exception).
Supporting Implementation and Enforcement
Staff also recommended minor changes and additions to the regulations proposed in the
July 5, 2017,Policy Report to support implementation and enforcement, including:
 A new Offence for Marketing Short-Term Rentals. Establishing a new offence in the
Ticket Offences By-law specifically prohibiting the marketing or advertising of
short-term rental accommodation without a valid business licence.
 Liability Insurance Recommendations. Rather than requiring Short-Term Rental
Operators to obtain liability insurance though the Licence By-law, the City would
instead recommend adequate insurance coverage, but defer matters relating to
liability to the appropriate jurisdiction.
 Inspection Powers. Consistent with inspection access requirements in Section 7 of the
existing Licence By-law, the City would require Short-Term Rental Operators give the
Fire Chief or the Chief Licence Inspector, or any member of staff authorized by the
Fire Chief or Chief Licence Inspector, access to the Short-Term Rental Accommodation
at any reasonable hour.
The changes recommended in the memo were reflected in the by-laws posted at the Public
Hearing and in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing package.
Staff Opening Comments
On October 24, 2017, Development, Buildings and Licensing staff reviewed the application.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 66 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 78 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 7 pieces of correspondence related to other matters.

Public Hearing
Minutes, October 24 and 26, 2017 4
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
On October 24 and 26, 2017, the following spoke in support of the application:
Karen Sawatzky, Chair, Renters Advisory Committee
Ty Speer, President and CEO, Tourism Vancouver
Leigh Striegler
Sid Hathiramani
Caitlin Dowling
Octavian Cadabeschi
James Chase
Teresita Gonzales
Peter Catarino, General Manager, Managed Marriott Hotels of Vancouver
Danette Kynoch
Quentin Wright, Executive Director, Mole Hill Community Housing Society
Sascha Voth, Chair, Hotel Association of Vancouver
Larissa Dawn
Clair Oates
Sue Willis, President, BC Bed and Breakfast Innkeeper's Guild
Aleksey Moltchanov
Trevor Loke
Alvi Christopher
Paula Wong
Liam McClure, Tenant Advocate, Vancouver Tenants Union
Patrick Meehan
Wendy Pedersen, Downtown Eastside SRO Collaborative
Nazma Lee
Mike Rhone
Sarah Baumgart
David MacKenzie, Board Chair, BC Hotel Association
Ulrike Rodrigues
Owen Brady
Danielle Reyes
Janna Pansegrau
Bernadette D'Silva
Mebrat Kebede
On October 24 and 26, 2017, the following spoke in opposition to the application, with many
expressing concerns related to aspects of the application including the exclusion of laneway
houses and secondary suites:
Alex Dagg, Policy Manager, Airbnb
Harvey Meller
Rafi Spivak
Allan Oas
Kevin MacDonald

Public Hearing
Minutes, October 24 and 26, 2017 5
Mel Carson
Suzanne O'Flynn
Meelie Dong
Laura Wong
Rasha Gad
Polina Furtula
Rachelle Delaney
Keith Ainsley
Leila Harris
Tal Jarus
Brock Smith
Odette Slater
Rohana Rezel
David Chen
Lucia Walters
Inge Mueller-Langer
Paul Lepage
Jack Gregg
Alison Brousson
Mike Hill
Kate Hill
Brian Hamilton
Ken Wong, Strata Council President, Conference Plaza
Brette Mullins
Mehdi Tafti
John Green
Greg Duifhuis
Teresa MacGregor
Jeff Murton
Steve Deller
Michael Brockington
Stephen Fuerderer
On October 26, 2017, the following spoke on other matters and expressed concerns related to
aspects of the application:
Brandon Hamilton
* * * * *
On October 24, 2017, Council recessed at 8:21 pm and reconvened at 8:44 pm, and then
recessed again at 10:05 pm and reconvened on October 26, 2017, at 6:08 pm, to continue
hearing speakers.
* * * * *

Public Hearing
Minutes, October 24 and 26, 2017 6
* * * * *
At 9:21 pm on October 26, 2017, during the hearing of speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be extended to finish hearing from speakers and close receipt of
public comments.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
On October 26, 2017, the speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 11:16 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Development, Buildings and Licensing staff provided closing comments.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT discussion and decision on Item 1 be referred to the Regular Council meeting on
Tuesday, November 14, 2017, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Tim Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Heather Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 11:21 pm.
* * * * *