PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
OCTOBER 17, 2017
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, October 17, 2017, at 6:08 pm,
in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and
Mayor Robertson opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 2
1. REZONING: 2221-2223 Main Street
An application by Catalyst Community Development Society and Marcon Developments Ltd.
was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 2221-2223 Main Street from IC-2 (Industrial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
stepped nine-storey mixed-use building with 145 social housing units and
commercial uses at grade. A height of 30.8 metres (101.1 feet) and a floor
space ratio (FSR) of 3.33 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated October 6, 2017, from the Director,
Affordable Housing Projects, and the Assistant Director of Planning, Midtown Division,
advising that since referral to Public Hearing, staff had determined that changes were
required within a Condition of Approval for Housing outlined in Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2221-2223 Main Street”. The
changes were proposed to provide clarification on the affordability levels for the proposed
social housing units.
Accordingly, on pp. 15-16 of Appendix B, the following revisions to Condition of Approval
(c)14(ii) were recommended, (shown below with strikeout to indicate deletion and bold and
italics to indicate insertion):
14. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Community Services to enter into a Section 219 Covenant,
Housing Agreement pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter, or
other security, to secure:
(i) a minimum of 44 units will be occupied by households with incomes
below the housing income limits as set out in the current “Housing
Income Limits (HILS)” table published by the British Columbia Housing
Management Commission or equivalent publication, at a rent which is no
more than 30 per cent of household income;
(ii) the remaining 101 units will be rented at rates not to average rents
across all units will not exceed 80 per cent of average area rental
rates as published and updated from time to time by Canada Mortgage
and Housing Corporation in their annual Rental Market Report;
It was noted that no action by Council was required, as the Summary and Recommendation
for this item had been prepared to reflect the changes outlined in the memorandum.
Subsequently, during the staff presentation on this application, it was noted that an
additional revision within Condition of Approval (c)14(ii) on pp. 16 of the Summary and
Recommendation was required, to clarify the rental maximum benchmark as rents set out
in the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 3
Accordingly, on pp. 16 of the Summary and Recommendation, the following revision to
Condition of Approval (c)14(ii) were recommended, (shown below with strikeout to indicate
deletion and bold italics to indicate insertion):
14. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Community Services to enter into a Section 219 Covenant,
Housing Agreement pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter, or
other security, to secure:
(i) a minimum of 44 units will be occupied by households with incomes
below the housing income limits as set out in the current “Housing
Income Limits (HILS)” table published by the British Columbia Housing
Management Commission or equivalent publication, at a rent which is no
more than 30 per cent of household income;
(ii) average rents across all units will not exceed 80 per cent of average
area rental rates as published and updated from time to time by Canada
Mortgage and Housing Corporation in their annual Rental Market Report;
(ii) average rents across all units will not exceed 80 per cent of the
maximum rents set out in sections 3.1A and 3.1B of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-Law;
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Robert Brown, Catalyst Community Developments Society provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 2 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 4 pieces of correspondence opposed to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in general support of the application but also recommended changes to
the orientation of the site:
Justin Nelson

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 4
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Stephanie Seidle
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:39 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff addressed points raised by the speakers.
Council Decision
The motion below contains the above-noted revision to the Summary and Recommendation,
which was approved at the meeting. The revised condition is shown in bold and italics:
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by Catalyst Community Development Society (“Catalyst”)
and Marcon Developments Ltd. (“Marcon”), on behalf of the Vancouver
Affordable Housing Agency (“VAHA”), as agent for the City of Vancouver (the
“City”), to rezone 2221-2223 Main Street [Lot 6; Lot 7, except the south 6.44
feet; Amended Lot 8 (See 124528L); Lot 9; Lot 10; and Lot 11, all of Block 37,
District Lot 200A, Plan 197;PIDs: 013-420-283; 013-420-305; 005-173-019; 005-
173-027; 005-173-043 and 005-173-051 respectively], from IC-2 (Industrial)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit a stepped
nine-storey mixed-use building with 145 social housing units and commercial
uses at grade, with a floor space ratio of 3.33 and a maximum building height
of 30.8 m (101.1 ft.), generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated September 5, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2221-2223 Main Street”, be
approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Rositch Hemphill Architects and
stamped “Received Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability,
May 19, 2017”, provided that the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, who shall
have particular regard to the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 5
Urban Design
1. Significant design development to the proposed building
form, in order to respond to the sloping site topography
and the terminating view from Kingsway.
Note to Applicant: This should include a relocation of building
mass from the top storey on the north side to the southeast
corner where an extra storey may be added to give physical
prominence to this corner.
2. Design development to the south commercial retail units
interfacing with the future park, with finished floor elevation
to follow the existing topography.
Note to Applicant: Removing the proposed elevated patio on
proposed Parks land, and staggering the floor elevations to
approximately 104 ft. on the west side and 106 ft. on the east
side, would satisfy this condition. Also refer to Parks
conditions. Vancouver Park Board staff have indicated that new
design of the park will likely follow the existing grade, which
will meet the rear lane elevation with a smooth transition.
Park Board staff have also indicated that a rectangular site
shape for the park will be sought.
3. Design development to achieve a residential architectural
character with a rich palette of materials and textures; a
stronger expression of the residential balconies; and a response
to the specific orientations of the four elevations for passively
reducing solar gain during the summer months.
4. Design development to provide an activating relationship to the
park from the residential component, by providing a direct
secondary “convenience” entry to the residential component of
the building when approached from the south side while also
retaining the main, elevator-served residential entry on the
north side of the building.
Note to Applicant: Locating an indoor and/or outdoor amenity
area directly facing the park on level 2 and a direct physical
and visual linkage are also recommended.
5. Relocation of the pad-mounted transformer to an at-grade
location on the development site, to be directly accessible
from the service lane.
6. Identification on the architectural drawings of any built
features intended to create a bird friendly design.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 6
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines
for examples of built features that may be applicable, and
provide a design rationale for the features noted. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
7. The proposed unit mix, including 28 studio units (19%),
45 one-bedroom units (31%), 42 two-bedroom units (29%),
and 30 three-bedroom units (21%), is to be included in the
Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the
rezoning application may only be varied under the discretion of
the Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided
that it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units
designed to be suitable for families with children.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
8. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
9. Design development of the Public Realm treatment to meet the
intent of the Mount Pleasant Public Realm Plan.
10. Design development to provide a more conservative tree removal
strategy, including as a minimum, Trees #380, 381 and 382 (Red
Maples in good condition).
Note to Applicant: These trees are located on the future Park
land and do not appear to require alterations to the building.
Confirmation from the Park Board is required. It is expected that
all developments will adhere to Council’s approved Urban Forest
Canopy Strategy, by retaining a maximum of viable trees, while
still allowing development. A revised Arborist Report should
document and make recommendations for methods of protection
of retained trees during construction. If arborist supervision is
required, then a Letter of Assurance should also be provided,
signed and dated by arborist, owner and contractor.
11. Design development to relate the building more with the Park, by
creating a stronger visual and access link and by programming
the common patio to make the transition from building to Park.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 7
12. Design development to re-orient the children’s play area to a
roof location with more solar access and visual linkage to the
park, while allowing visual access from an indoor amenity room
for parental supervision.
13. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters to ensure long term viability of the
landscape.
Note to Applicant: Underground parking slabs and retaining walls
may need to be sloped or altered to provide adequate depth and
continuous soil volumes. Growing mediums and planting depths
should be to BCSLA standards or better.
14. Design development to improve sustainability by the provision of
diverse, edible plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots on
inhabitable roofs.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided
with amenities such as, raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
15. At the time of Development Permit application:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant
sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light
fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant
material should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should
be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale. The plan should read
clearly in black and white, without tones or shading.
(ii) A Tree Management Plan, showing all existing trees to be
retained/relocated/removed, complete with tree
protection in coordination with arborist report.
(iii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours
and trellises, and other features. Planter section details
must confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees
well into the future, at a depth that exceeds BCSLA
standard.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 8
(iv) Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to
public realm interface facing the street, confirming a
delineated private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails,
fences and planters. The location of the underground
parking slab should be included in the section.
(v) Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen
lane edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a
manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and
public realm.
(vi) Coordination of new proposed street trees with
Engineering and the Park Board, confirming species and
locations, and addition of the following note:
Final location, quantity, tree species to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Engineering. Contact Eileen
Curran at 604-871-6131 to confirm planting location. New
tree must be of good standard, minimum 6 cm caliper
and installed with approved root barriers, tree guards and
appropriate soil. Root barriers shall be 8 feet long and
18 inches deep. Planting depth of root ball must be below
sidewalk grade. New street trees to be confirmed prior to
issuance of the building permit. Call Cabot Lyford at Park
Board at 311 for tree species selection and planting
requirements. Park Board to inspect and approve after
tree planting completion.
(vii) A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be
provided for all planters on parkade slab and minimum of
hose bibs to be provided for landscape on grade.
(viii) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
(ix) Provision of confirmed trenching locations for utility
connections, avoiding conflict with tree root zones and
addition of the following note:
Trenching for utility connections to be coordinated with
Engineering Department to ensure safe root zones of
retained trees. Methods of tree protection for street trees
to be approved by Park Board.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 9
Note to Applicant: Methods of tree protection for street
trees (as approved by Park Board) to be shown on plan.
Relocation of trenching locations are required if in
conflict with tree protection.
(x) Provision on the landscape drawings of landscape features
intended to create a bird friendly design.
Note to Applicant: Bird friendly plants should be included
on the plant palette, enabling bird habitat conservation
and bird habitat promotion. Refer to the Bird Friendly
Design Guidelines for examples of built features that may
be applicable, and provide a design rationale for the
features noted. For more information, see the guidelines
at:
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.p
df.
Sustainability
16. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of
63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency
and stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost
as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits.
The strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be
incorporated into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED
Accredited Professional or Administrator must confirm that the
proposed strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning
policy. Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with
the application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
17. In lieu of the requirements in Condition (b) 16, the applicant may
choose to meet the requirements of the Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 10
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
18. If, at time of development permit, the applicant chooses to meet
requirements for the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings
(amended February 7, 2017), they will enter into an agreement
with the City, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Director
of Sustainability and the Director of Legal Services, that requires
the future owner of the building to report energy use data, on an
aggregated basis, for the building as a whole and certain common
areas and building systems. Such an agreement will further
provide for the hiring of a qualified service provider to assist the
building owner for a minimum of three years in collecting and
submitting energy use data to the City.
Engineering
19. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering
to acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation &
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or
sourcing adjacent private property to construct from) and be
aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection /removal or slab pour that requires additional street
use beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
20. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent the site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
21. Provision of a canopy application. Canopies must be fully
demountable and drained to the buildings internal drainage
system. Canopies are defined as a rigid roof like structure
supported entirely from a building and where the canopy deck is
constructed of wired or laminated safety glass or metal not less
than 0.56 mm in thickness. (VBBL section 1A.9.8).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 11
22. Clarify if plants or sod are proposed in the front boulevard on
East 6th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: Landscape drawings to include a detailed
plant list. All plantings on City right of way to comply with the
Boulevard Gardening Guidelines.
23. Provide a 1’-6” (0.46 m) sod grass strip between the sidewalk and
any proposed planting in the boulevard.
24. Show the existing utility poles in the lane on the site plan.
Note to Applicant: The existing wood poles in lane may conflict
with access and manoeuvering to the Residential Class B loading.
Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the appropriate public utility companies
for pole relocation may be required. Should a conflict exist,
written confirmation of the ability to relocate or remove the pole
is required from all affected utility companies.
25. Confirmation that any relocated wood poles in the lane adjacent
the site will not impact existing lane lighting, should any
relocated pole include lighting impacts or loss of existing lane
lighting then provision of replacement lighting and/or upgrading
of the lane lighting to current standard will be required.
26. Provision of an updated landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements and Mount Pleasant Public Realm plan treatments
sought by this rezoning.
27. Please ensure that SRW dimensions are clearly measured from
back of the existing curbs, not the front. (Plans only reference
“curb” not “back of curb”.)
28. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Show the overhead gate for the main ramp and the
loading bays on the plans.
(ii) Ensure O/H gate maintains full manoeuvering aisle width
when operating. Either delete door shown in gate or
confirm gate and door will open as “one” and not reduce
required manoeuvering aisle width.
(iii) All parking stalls to be numbered and dimensioned on the
drawings including clearances to walls or structures.
(iv) Dimension the manoeuver aisle widths on all parking
levels.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 12
Note to Applicant: Minimum 6.6 m (21.8 ft.) maneuvering
aisle width is required or provide 2.74 m (9 ft.) stall
widths.
(v) Provide a 10 ft. x 10 ft. corner cut through the inside
radius at the bottom of the main parking ramp to enable
two vehicles to pass each other unobstructed.
(vi) Explore opportunities to improve two-way flow and
sightlines at the parking ramps from P1 to P4 parking
levels. View slots and parabolic mirrors are
recommended.
(vii) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and
through the loading bays.
(viii) Label the minimum clearance for parking levels on the
drawings, including overhead gate and mechanical
projections.
Note to Applicant: Minimum 2.3 m clearance is required
to all disability spaces and 3.8 m clearance is required for
the Class B loading.
(ix) Dimension the Class B loading bays and load throats.
(x) Provision of design elevations on both sides of all loading
bays to calculate the slope and crossfall.
(xi) Provide double throats for the Class B loading spaces.
Note to Applicant: Double throats are required to
facilitate approaches and departures to and from both
6th and 7th Avenues.
(xii) Additional loading bay width of 3.8 m is required for the
second and subsequent loading spaces.
(xiii) Confirm that internal, stair-free loading routes are
provided from the Commercial loading bays to all of the
Commercial units.
(xiv) Provision of updated plans showing the access route for
the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
(xv) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 13
(xvi) Class B residential bicycle parking to be relocated to a
visible location on private property as per the Parking
By-law.
(xvii) Adjust the architectural columns located at the south east
corner of the site (dwg L1.1, May 2017) so they are not in
the sidewalk that connects Main Street to the lane within
the park area.
29. Provision of a residential parking update 1 year post-occupancy.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
30. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City and the City-designated NES Utility
Provider, shall be provided prior to the issuance of any
development permit, to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
31. The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system shall be
designed to be easily connectable and compatible with
Neighbourhood Energy to supply all heating and domestic hot
water requirements. Design provisions related to Neighbourhood
Energy compatibility must be to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall refer to the
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards – Design
Guidelines for general design requirements related to
Neighbourhood Energy compatibility at the building scale.
The applicant is also encouraged to work closely with City
staff during mechanical design to ensure compatibility with a
neighbourhood-scale system. As a pre- condition to building
permit, a declaration signed by the registered professional of
record certifying that the Neighbourhood Energy connectivity
requirements have been satisfied will be required.
32. Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air shall be
provided by hydronic systems without electric resistance heat or
distributed heat generating equipment (including but not limited
to gas fired make-up air heaters, heat producing fireplaces,
distributed heat pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
33. Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to be
utilized for an energy transfer station connecting the building(s)
to the City-designated Neighbourhood Energy System, as outlined
in the Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards – Design
Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: The site would be serviced by the
City-designated NES from 6th Avenue.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 14
34. Provide for suitably located Neighbourhood Energy Room and
design provisions to accommodate the City-designated NES, as
outlined in the Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards –
Design Guidelines, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: Design provisions shall allow for the future
installation of heat producing equipment (boilers/heat pumps)
in the building parkade. The room location must be suitable for
accommodating boiler ventilation and flues, and connecting to
the NEU distribution piping.
35. Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical heating
system at the building permit stage must be to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Housing
36. Housing to be designed in accordance with the City’s Housing and
Technical design guidelines, including the requirement for a
minimum of 5% of units to be accessible.
Parks
37. The design, construction and programming of the park are to be
determined through a separate, Park Board-led process.
Note to Applicant: The Park Board-led process will confirm the
amenities to be included in the park. Elements such as a Public
Bike Share station, shown in the site plan, or other non-park
related infrastructure are not supported within the park parcel.
38. Design development to provide a contiguous, rectangular park
2
parcel totaling no less than 985 m (10,600 sq. ft.).
39. Building is to meet City building grades at the new shared
property line, including an at-grade connection at Main Street
and an at-grade connection at the lane. The park will meet these
existing grades through its design.
40. No private development or non-park uses are to be located in the
park parcel.
Note to Applicant: If the patio amenity servicing the private
property extends into the park parcel, the third-party operator
will be required to enter into a license agreement outlining terms
for revenue sharing. The agreement will be renewed regularly
with terms to the satisfaction of the General Manager of the Park
Board.
41. Park Board arborist approval required for tree protection plan for
all trees on site. Plans to be submitted for Park Board approval at
each phase of development.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 15
42. Park Board arborist approval required for any impacts on, or
planned removal or relocation of, existing street trees.
43. Park Board arborist review of tree health and retention or
relocation within the park site will be required.
44. License agreement for construction staging within the
undeveloped Park Parcel, subject to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Parks and Recreation.
45. Anticipated that Park Parcel will be designated as permanent
park by the end of the first quarter of 2022.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner
shall on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Parks and Recreation, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, the Managing Director of
Cultural Services, the General Manager of Community Services (or
successor in function), and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at
the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Subdivision of Lot 7, Except the South 6.44 Feet, Amended Lot
8 (See 124528L), and Lots 6, 9, 10 and 11; all of Block 37, DL
200A, Plan 197 to create a northerly parcel (Sub-area 1) for
housing, and a southerly parcel (Sub-area 2) for Park; with the
dedication of the south 1.0 m and the east 2.6 m of the
southerly parcel for road purposes.
2. Resolution of the lane ownership is required prior to issuance
of a development permit.
Note to Applicant: Portions of the lane that are required for
access to the development are not owned by the City. Legal
Services has commenced a petition to the Supreme Court of
BC in order to assert the City’s ownership of the lane.
3. Provision of a Statutory Right of Way (SRW) for public
pedestrian use of an expanded sidewalk over the area of the
northerly parcel adjacent to the Main Street frontage to give
an overall distance of 5.5 m (18 ft.) from the back of the
existing City curb to the building face for the entire length of
that parcel; and the area adjacent to the E 6th Avenue
frontage to give an overall distance of 4.5 m (14 ft. 9 in.)
from the back of the existing City curb to the building face.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 16
Note to Applicant: A legal survey showing the existing distance
from the back of the City curb to property line is required to
determine the final building setback/SRW dimension. The SRW is
to be free of any encumbrance such as structure, stairs,
door-swing, landscape and bicycle parking at-grade and to
consist of typical sidewalk treatments; however, below-grade
structures and portions of the building from the third storey and
above will be accommodated within the SRW agreement.
4. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement 250881M
(commercial crossing) and Covenant E3313 (off-site parking)
prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of
an occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
5. Provision of replacement Commercial parking spaces on this
site to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
6. Provision of a letter of commitment to provide the City with a
Residential Parking Study one year after occupancy, including
the number of parking spaces in use by residents by unit type,
and vehicle ownership survey of building residents.
7. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “Services”) such
that they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to
the City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way
for the services are provided. No development permit for the
site will be issued until the security for the Services are
provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire
flow demands of the project. The current application
lacks the details to determine if water main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including projected fire flow demands, sprinkler
demand, hydrant load, and domestic water demands
to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Should upgrading be necessary then arrangements to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any water system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) If the development connects to the 200 mm combined
main, then the developer must separate the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 17
combined main adjacent to the proposed
development, in the lane west of Main Street (north
of the lane west of Main Street and 7th Avenue
intersection). Separated sanitary and storm main to
be designed and constructed to City of Vancouver
Sewers Design Manual and Construction
Specifications. Existing combined main may be used
as the storm main following CCTV review and
approval by City of Vancouver Sewers Design Branch.
CCTV footage to be provided by developer.
(iii) Provision of the following Mount Pleasant public
realm sidewalk treatments adjacent the site.
“Streetscape components as per the Mount Pleasant
Community Plan Implementation including sidewalk
paving materials and finishes between the curb and
th
building face on Main Street and E 6 Avenue,
th
benches on the front boulevard on E 6 Avenue and
street lighting on Main Street that announces the
processional character of Main Street and reflects the
commercial and industrial character of the
neighbourhood.”
a. A curb bulge on East 6th Avenue at Main Street.
City of Vancouver to provide road geometry.
b. Engineering recommends CIP light broom finish
concrete walk with saw cut joints for the public
paths shown south of the building within the park
area.
c. A 1.83 m CIP broom finish sidewalk and sod grass
boulevard with street trees where space permits
on 7th Avenue.
d. Upgraded street lighting on Main Street and on
East 6th Avenue to current standards including a
review of the existing lighting to determine its
adequacy and a lighting design as required.
e. Provision of standard concrete commercial lane
crossings at the 2 lane entries to the site (north
side of 7th Avenue at the lane west of Main
Street and the south side of 6th Avenue at the
lane west of Main Street). Work to include
upgrading of curb returns either side of the lane.
f. Provision of street trees adjacent the site where
space permits.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 18
8. Provision of all utility services to be underground from
the closest existing suitable service point. All electrical
services to the site must be primary with all electrical
plant, which include but not limited to System Vista,
Vista switchgear, pad mounted transformers, LPT and
kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located
on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary
voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the
existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval
by the Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your
consultation with B.C. Hydro that an area has been
defined within the development footprint to
accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement
between both parties has been met.
9. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right of way.
10. Parking is to be supplied to the satisfaction of the
Director of Planning in consultation with the General
Manager of Engineering Services and loading, and
bicycle spaces are to be provided and maintained
according to the provisions of the Vancouver Parking
By-law.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
11. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services determine are necessary for connection to a
City- designated Neighbourhood Energy System (NES),
which may include but are not limited to agreements
which:
(i) require buildings within the development to
connect to the City- designated Neighbourhood
Energy System at such time that a system becomes
available;
(ii) grant the operator of the City-designated NES
access to the building(s) mechanical system and
thermal energy system-related infrastructure
within the development for the purpose of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 19
enabling NES connection and operation, on such
terms and conditions as may be reasonably
required by the Applicant;
(iii) grant use of and access to suitable space required
for the purposes of an energy transfer station, to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services; and
(iv) grant use of and access to the Neighbourhood
Energy Room for the purposes of infrastructure and
distribution equipment to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant:
a. The development will be required to
connect to a NES prior to occupancy if the
General Manager of Engineering Services
deems a connection is available and
appropriate at the time of building permit
issuance. If connection to a NES is not
available or appropriate, a deferred
services agreement or similar agreement
will be required.
b. If the development is required by the
General Manager of Engineering Services
to connect to an NES, the Owner will be
prohibited from entering into any third
party energy supply contract for thermal
energy services, other than conventional
electricity and natural gas supply, unless
otherwise approved by the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
c. Design shall provide suitable space for the
installation of NES equipment with
adequate provisions for connection to
outside NES distribution piping and
communications conduit. District energy
equipment may include, but is not limited
to, an energy plant sized for
neighbourhood service, energy transfer
stations, heat recovery equipment, and/or
boiler equipment. At the building permit
stage, the applicant will be required to
submit final detailed drawings, signed and
sealed by a professional engineer where
necessary, for review by Engineering
Services to confirm final room dimensions
and technical information.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 20
Parks
12. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Parks and Recreation in consultation with the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, General Manager of Community Services
and the Director of Legal Services for the delivery of
2
a permanent park space no less than 985 m (10,600 sq.
ft.). To secure this condition the applicant will enter into
agreements with the City which include, but may not be
limited to the following requirement, to be satisfied at no
cost to the City:
(i) Subdivision to create no less than a 10,600 square
foot park parcel.
Soils
13. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental
Services and the Director of Legal Services in their
discretion, do all things and/or enter into such
agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver
Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental
Services and the Director of Legal Services in their
discretion, enter into a remediation agreement for
the remediation of the site and any contaminants
which have migrated from the site on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Manager of
Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal
Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or
improvements on the site constructed pursuant to
this rezoning until separate Certificates of
Compliance satisfactory to the City for the on- site
and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Housing
14. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of
Legal Services and the General Manager of Community
Services to enter into a Section 219 Covenant, Housing
Agreement pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 21
Charter, or other security, to secure:
(i) a minimum of 44 units will be occupied by
households with incomes below the housing
income limits as set out in the current “Housing
Income Limits (HILS)” table published by the
British Columbia Housing Management Commission
or equivalent publication, at a rent which is no
more than 30 per cent of household income;
(ii) Average rents across all units will not exceed
80 per cent of the maximum rents set out in
sections 3.1A and 3.1B of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-Law;
(iii) the social housing units for the life of the building
for use as “social housing” as defined in the
Vancouver Zoning and Development By-law and as
described in this report;
(iv) a no separate-sales covenant;
(v) a no stratification covenant; and
(vi) a requirement that none of the units will be
rented for less than one month at a time.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by
by-law enacted pursuant to Section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not
only as personal covenants of the property owners, but also as
registered charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the
appropriate Land Title Office, with priority over such other
liens, charges and encumbrances affecting the subject site as
are considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services, and
otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services
prior to enactment of the by-law.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City
including indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, and
letters of credit, and provide for the withholding of permits, as
deemed appropriate by, and in the form and content
satisfactory to, the Director of Legal Services.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 22
B. THAT, the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations
for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2221-2223 Main
Street”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the
amendment to the Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of
the Policy Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
2221-2223 Main Street”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal
Services be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 2221-2223 Main Street”.
E. THAT A through D be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights
for the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part
of the City and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is
at the risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the
cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public
hearing shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the
property, and any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements
imposed as a condition of rezoning are at the risk of the property
owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving
Officer, shall not in any way be limited or directed in the
exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of when they
are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02256)
2. REZONING: 124 Dunlevy Avenue (Roddan Lodge)
An application by DYS Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 124 Dunlevy Avenue from DEOD (Downtown Eastside
Oppenheimer) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to
permit the development of an 11-storey mixed-use building with a social
service centre at grade (Evelyne Saller Centre), and 213 social housing units
above. A height of 34.14 metres (112 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of
5.98 are proposed.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 23
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Housing Policy and Projects staff responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:51 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by DYS Architecture, on behalf of the City of Vancouver
Public Housing Corporation (“VPHC”), to rezone 124 Dunlevy Avenue [Lots 1 to
6, Block 41, District Lot 196, Plan 196; PIDs 015-589-277, 015-589-285, 015-589-
293, 015-589-307, 015-589-315, and 015-589-331, respectively] from DEOD
(Downtown Eastside Oppenheimer) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District to increase the floor space ratio from 4.50 to 5.98 and
height from 22.80 m (75 ft.) to 34.14 m (112 ft.), to allow for the construction
of an 11-storey mixed-use building with social service use at grade (Evelyne
Saller Centre) and residential use above, containing 213 social housing units,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 124 Dunlevy Avenue
(Roddan Lodge)”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by DYS Architecture and stamped
“Received City Planning Department, April 28, 2017” provided that the
Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 24
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to improve the livability of the micro
dwelling units as follows:
(i) increase clear ceiling height, where possible; and,
(ii) provide private outdoor space in the form of balconies or
Juliette balconies.
Note to Applicant: A minimum of 2.59 m (8.5 ft.) clear
ceiling height should be provided at Levels 10 and 11. An
increase in the overall building height of 0.30 m (1 ft.) to
34.14 m (112 ft.) is supported to facilitate provision of
this increased ceiling height at Levels 10 and 11. For
micro-units located at Levels 7, 8 and 9 and below
common roof decks, further exploration is encouraged to
improve ceiling height where possible, noting constraints
related to roof deck assembly and accessibility. Juliette
balconies should be provided at micro-units and
incorporated into the architectural design. Consider
provision of access to the east roof deck at Level 2 for
adjacent units.
2. Design development to reinforce and reflect the historical
neighborhood character.
Note to Applicant: New development may employ a more
contemporary architectural design and reflect the established
pattern and character of the built form in the Downtown Eastside
neighbourhood. It is noted that the architectural design may be
simplified, and rely less on color and more on composition,
materials and details, to provide a contextual fit.
3. Design development to the ground floor to ensure pedestrian
interest and engagement, as well as comfort, at both the street
and lane.
Note to Applicant: This may be accomplished through further
consideration of the programming of the ground floor, as well as
the architectural and lane-edge treatment. See Landscape
Condition 8.
4. Provision of high quality and durable exterior finishes consistent
with the rezoning application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 25
Note to Applicant: The intent is to maintain the proposed
material quality in all aspects, including appearance, durability,
and performance.
5. Design development to include a children’s play area in the
outdoor amenity area that can accommodate a range of
children’s play activities, for children of various ages.
Note to Applicant: Consider opportunities to locate the play area
in the Level 2 outdoor amenity area, if feasible. Play equipment
is not required, nor encouraged for the children's play areas, but
a soft surface play area and a variety of creative landscape/play
features (such as balancing logs and boulders, opportunities for
sand play or a small and tangible water stream or feature,
creative motor-skills developing features etc.) which provide a
myriad of creative play opportunities for a range of ages is
encouraged.
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings.
Sustainability
7. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 26
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
8. In lieu of the requirements in Condition (b) 7, the applicant may
choose to meet the requirements of the Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive
House certified or alternate near zero emissions standard
approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions
Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions Green
Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the most recent bulletin Green Buildings Policy for
Rezonings – Process and Requirements (amended April 28, 2017
or later).
Landscape
9. Design development to improve the lane interface by the
addition of more substantial landscape buffer, consisting of an
additional shrub bed to replace paving where possible and
addition of a trellis with climbing vines as part of the metal
picket fence/gate structure. The addition of down lighting should
also be provided, for safety and improved interface.
Note to Applicant: The lane edge planting should be protected
from vehicles by a 20 cm (8 in.) high curb.
10. Design development to improve sustainability and expand
programming to include edible plants, in addition to urban
agriculture.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided
with amenities such as, raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
11. Provision of a Letter of Consent from the east adjacent property
owner for the proposed removal of the shared tree at the north-
east corner of the site.
Note to Applicant: If the property owner does not give consent
for the tree removal, then an Arborist Report and Letter of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 27
Assurance for supervision will be required, ensuring the safe
retention of the shared tree. Retaining this tree may affect the
form of development.
12. Design development to ensure locations of hydro kiosk in areas
screened by soft landscape as much as possible, if not provided
in an internal mechanical room. Any other emergency generators,
transformers or gas meters to be located, integrated, and fully
screened in a manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the building’s open space and public
realm.
13. Design development to the programming of shared landscaped
decks at Levels 2, 8 9 and 10, to allow each deck to have a
distinct character or theme, each promoting social interaction.
Note to Applicant: Consider expansion of programming to the
roof at Level 6 as well, if feasible.
14. At the development permit submission stage:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for the proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant
sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light
fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant
material should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should
be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours
and trellises, and other features. Planter section details
must confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees
well into the future.
(iii) Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to
public realm interface facing the street, confirming a
delineated private to public transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails,
fences and planters. The location of the underground
parking slab should be included in the section.
(iv) Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen
lane edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a
manner which minimizes their impact on the architectural
expression and the project’s open space and public realm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 28
(v) Trellis and vines to be provided over the underground
garage access ramp.
(vi) New proposed street trees should be coordinated with the
Park Board and Engineering and noted “Final species,
quantity and spacing to the approval of City Engineer and
Park Board”.
Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering
Streets Division regarding street tree spacing and
quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of
Park Board regarding tree species.
(vii) A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be
provided for all planters on structures and minimum of
hose bibs to be provided for landscape on grade;
(viii) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
Engineering
15. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of section drawings showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and the
Class B loading area.
Note to Applicant: label the minimum clearance for
loading and the parking level on the drawings, including
overhead gate and mechanical projections.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp and at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading and
carshare at the lane, throughout the parking level and at
all entrances.
Note to Applicant: The slope and length of the ramp
sections must be shown both sides of the ramp on the
submitted drawings.
(iii) Provision of minimum 3.7 m (12 ft.) ramp width for one
way vehicle flow.
(iv) Ramps which have a 15% slope and are exposed to the
weather must be heated.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 29
(v) Provision of a signal/ warning system for the single ramp.
Note to Applicant: a qualified transportation engineer
must provide details on the system and locations of all
lights, signs and detection devices on the plans. The
signal system to be designed for vehicles and cyclists and
to consider timing to allow cyclists walking their bikes up
the 15% slope vehicle ramp.
(vi) Provision of a letter of commitment from the property
manager that acknowledges acceptance that the larger
residential elevator can also be used by cyclists to reach
the outside if they are unable to use the vehicle ramp for
bicycle access and egress.
(vii) Modify column placement to comply with the
requirements of the Engineering Parking and Loading
Design Supplement.
Note to Applicant: A column 0.6 m (2 ft.) in length must
be set back 0.6 m (2 ft.) from either the opening to or the
end of the parking space. A column 0.9 m (3 ft.) long may
be set back 0.3 m (1 ft.).
(viii) Provide additional parking stall width for stalls adjacent
to walls or stalls with columns set back more than 1.2 m
(4 ft. from the end of the stall. Provide a minimum 0.3m
(1 ft.) setback from the drive aisle for all columns.
(ix) Provide a 6.6 m (21.7 ft.) maneuvering aisle width or
provide 2.6 m (8.5 ft.) stall widths.
(x) Reduce the grade on the drive aisles at RL3 and RL4 to 5%
or less.
(xi) Provision of a double loading bay throat for the Class B
loading bay.
Note to Applicant: the double load throat will allow the
Class B vehicle to enter and exit the loading bay from
Dunlevy Avenue.
(xii) Provision of minimum 1.5 m (4.9 ft.) at rear of the Class B
loading bay for loading operation.
Note to Applicant: The additional space at the rear of the
Class B loading bay will allow for independent stair free
loading for the van stall (Class A loading bay) when the
Class B loading is occupied.
(xiii) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces located at grade and on
P1 parking levels to reach the outside.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 30
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp or elevator, if
required.
(xiv) Explore opportunities to reduce the number of vertical
Class A bicycle spaces proposed and to reallocate to
horizontal stalls.
(xv) Remove the wheel ramp shown on the SW staircase from
P1 parking level to the lane.
Note to Applicant: Engineering does not support the use of
a wheel ramps for bicycle access.
(xvi) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle rooms.
16. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet
municipal design standards for shotcrete removal (Street
Restoration Manual section 02596 and Encroachment By-law
(#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design
achievements certified and confirmed with survey and
photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
17. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection /
removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
18. A review of the existing street tree locations and scale/size of
tree to determine if the proposed building location will have a
negative impact on retention of the trees and a review to
determine a construction methodology that will ensure the
protection of the trees and tree canopies during the construction
period and post occupancy.
19. Provision of required Class B bicycle parking to be on private
property.
Note to Applicant: that this may best be achieved by the use of
inverted “U” style bike racks installed parallel to the building.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 31
20. Provision of a canopy application for any canopy/awning
encroaching over public property. Note canopies are to be fully
demountable and drained to the buildings internal drainage
systems and should consider the final sidewalk location and
widths such that the drip line is achieving maximum weather
protection for the sidewalk users.
21. Rezoned property must include a storm water management plan
that controls site flows such that pre and post project flows are
equal for the 1 in 5 return period storm.
22. At the time of occupancy, the applicant is to commit to providing
parking usage statistics such as occupancy counts throughout the
day, number of parking passes sold and/or distributed, for
vehicle parking and bicycle parking by staff and residents after
one full year of operation of the new building.
Housing Policy and Projects
23. Design development to move all Roddan Lodge replacement unit
storage lockers on parking level 1 to be in close proximity to the
elevators.
Note to Applicant: This would allow for the consolidation of the
Roddan Lodge replacement unit lockers with stair-free access
and in closer proximity to the elevator.
24. Provision of a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted
prior to issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the
names of tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for
alternate accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value
given to each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other
compensation); and includes a summary of all communication
provided to the tenants.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as necessary,
and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 1 to 6, Block 41, DL 196, Plan 196 to create
a single parcel.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 32
site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued
until the security for the services are provided:
(i) Provision of new curb return and curb ramps, at the south
east corner of Dunlevy Avenue and Alexander Street.
(ii) Provision of a commercial concrete lane crossing at the
lane south of Alexander Street on the east side of Dunlevy
Avenue including new curb returns and ramps on both
sides of the lane.
(iii) Provision of 1.53 m (5’-0”) sod front boulevard and a
minimum 2.14 m (7’-0”) CIP light broom finish sidewalk
with saw cut joints on Dunlevy Avenue and Alexander
Street adjacent the site in keeping with area standards.
(iv) Provision of upgraded street lighting on all site frontages
to current standards including a review of the existing
lighting to determine its adequacy and a lighting design as
required.
(v) Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right of way.
(vi) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks
the details to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Please supply project details including
projected fire flow demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant
load, and domestic water demands to determine if water
main upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any water system upgrading that may be required.
(vii) For building fixtures, install Energy Star rated appliances
(e.g. clothes washers) and meet the January 1, 2018
Vancouver building code plumbing fixture rates or
upgrade the downstream sanitary main from Hawkes Ave
to the Metro Vancouver tie in from a 250 mm to a
375 mm.
3. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 33
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) to
be located on private property with no reliance on public
property for placement of these features.
In addition, there will be no reliance on secondary
voltage from the existing overhead electrical network on
the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
B.C. Hydro an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
4. Provision of a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to
secure the provision, operation and maintenance of 2 Shared
Vehicle(s) and the provision and maintenance of 2 Shared
Vehicle Parking Space(s) for use exclusively by such Shared
Vehicle(s), with such parking spaces to be in addition to the
minimum parking spaces required by the Parking Bylaw, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services,
including the following:
(i) Provide 2 Shared Vehicle(s) to the development for a
minimum period of 3 years;
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicle(s);
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space(s)
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles;
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space(s);
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle; and
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the
Director of Legal Services may require and including a
covenant under section 219 of the Land Title Act of British
Columbia, a statutory right of way, or other instrument
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services, securing
these conditions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 34
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a car share
company indicating their willingness to supply car share
vehicles on the site at building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Shared vehicle spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9m.
5. Provision of a shared use agreement to the satisfaction of the
GMES for shared use of the Class B loading space between the
Social Service Centre and the Residential uses and label the
space as ‘Shared Loading’.
Note to Applicant: The shared use agreement should specify
allocated time periods for shared use by the Residential vs.
Social Service Centre.
Housing
6. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Community Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement for 60 years or the life of the building,
whichever is greater, which will contain the following terms and
conditions:
(i) A no separate sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) A provision that none of such units will be rented for less
than one month at a time;
(iv) A requirement that a minimum of 140 units (66%) be
rented for no more than the shelter component of Income
Assistance;
(v) A requirement that all units comply with the definition of
“social housing” in the applicable City development cost
levy by-law;
(vi) A requirement that VPHC comply with the terms of the
Tenant Relocation Plan outlined in Appendix D of this
report, including right of first refusal; and
(vii) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: this condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by
by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 35
Environmental Contamination
7. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the preceding
agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the property
owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject sites as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend Schedule A of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 124 Dunlevy
Avenue”, be approved.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 36
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the Noise
Control By-law for Council approval, generally as set out in Appendix C of the
Policy Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 124 Dunlevy
Avenue”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Parking By-law for Council
approval, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 124 Dunlevy Avenue”.
E. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 124 Dunlevy Avenue”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by this report, subject to
such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director
of Legal Services and the General Manager of Community Services.
F. THAT A through E be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the
City; any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property,
and any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a
condition of rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer,
shall not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their
authority or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to
exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02257)
3. REZONING: 618 West 32nd Avenue
An application by Shift Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 618 West 32nd Avenue from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
six-storey residential building containing a total of 15 dwelling units. A
height of 21.7 metres (71 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.45 are
proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 37
Council also had before it a memorandum dated October 4, 2017, from the Assistant Director
of Planning, Vancouver South Division, advising that staff had prepared the Summary and
Recommendation for this item generally in accordance with the Policy Report dated July 11,
2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 618 West 32nd Avenue”, except for a change to the ownership
from “Quarry (Cambie) Development Corp.”, to “618 West 32nd Holdings Ltd.”, and that
the change was needed because the ownership of 618 West 32nd Avenue changed after
referral of the application to Public Hearing.
No action was required by Council as the Summary and Recommendation for this item
contained the change explained in the memorandum.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Monique Choptuik
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:08 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff addressed responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Shift Architecture Inc. on behalf of 618 West 32nd
Holdings Ltd., the registered owners, to rezone 618 West 32nd Avenue
[PID: 008-150-401; Lot 6, Block 819, District Lot 526, Plan 7221] from RS-1
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District,
to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.45 FSR and the height
from 9.5 m (31 ft.) to 21.7 m (71 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey
residential building containing a total of 15 dwelling units, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017 entitled

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 38
“CD-1 Rezoning: 618 West 32nd Avenue”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Shift Architecture Inc., on behalf of
618 West 32nd Holdings Ltd. and stamped “Received Planning
Department, March 17, 2016”, provided that the Director of Planning
may allow minor alterations to this form of development when
approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to substantially revise the building massing
at the northeast corner of the proposed buildings as necessary
and required to facilitate the safe retention of two existing trees
as noted below.
Note to Applicant: See also Landscape condition 5. The above
condition may result in a commensurate reduction of the
proposed density.
2. Design development to relocate the parking garage exit stair
(currently located at the southeast corner of the site) to a
location that does not compromise the front yard landscape and
the functioning of the outdoor amenity space.
Note to Applicant: The proposed stair is located in a required
setback. Relocation of the stair will improve the patio space. An
alternative stair location can be considered at the rear of the
site.
3. Design development to raise the amenity patio grading to be
situated at or near to natural (existing) grade.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
4. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 39
Landscape Design
5. Design development to provide a more conservative tree removal
strategy, by enabling the safe retention and protection of two
significant existing trees #4 and #5 referenced on the Arborist
Report as a Pinus nigra (black pine).
Note to Applicant: The current scheme proposes the removal of
all five site trees, which conflicts with Council’s approved Urban
Forest Canopy Strategy. The Urban Forest Canopy Strategy sets
out to retain and protect as many viable trees at the site edges
as possible, while still allowing for development. The retention
of Trees #4 and #5 will require revisions to the underground
parking and building footprint to allow sufficient clearance for
the Critical Root Zones. A revised Arborist Report should also
document and make recommendations for the trees to be
retained. The analysis will require additional arborist reporting
and details of construction work near trees. Modifications to the
underground parkade and open space plan will be needed. To
optimize tree protection, employ special construction methods,
such as vertical shoring and setback the limit of excavation
outside the dripline. It is recommended to measure the current
surveyed dripline of these two trees and add an additional
further distance of 1.22 m for setback to building. The scheme
should not rely on canopy encroachments or surface disturbances
(such as intensive re-landscaping). Avoid landscape or grading
proposals and that may cause unnecessary compaction of roots
and changes to the existing growing conditions (water
availability and drainage). Ensure building glazing near the
retained trees is non-reflective.
6. Design development to expand programming and improve
sustainability by including opportunities for expanded common
green amenity areas.
Note to Applicant: Shared gardening areas could be on rooftops
as intensive green roofs and should be designed to adhere to
Council’s Urban Agriculture Design Guidelines for the Private
Realm. They should provide maximum solar exposure, universal
accessibility and be provided with amenities such as raised beds,
water for irrigation, potting bench, tool storage and composting.
7. Consideration of improved sustainability by the provision of
confirmed urban agriculture plots and the addition of edible
plants to the Plant Pallette.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 40
with amenities such as, raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
8. Design development to improve public realm and encourage
connectivity with context. Streetscape improvements should
include street furniture. There should be clear visual and
wayfinding pedestrian connections to Cambie Street and other
neighbourhood amenities.
9. Design development to the common outdoor spaces, to achieve
the following:
(i) Better physical and visual connection between the formal
indoor seating area and the children’s play area;
(ii) Provision of outdoor seating in the amenity patio;
(iii) Deletion of the entry gate to the amenity patio and
expansion of the space by relocating the bike racks;
(iv) Increase in children’s play area, in order to provide a
more active and viable space; and
(v) Access to sunny areas for all outdoor spaces.
10. Provision of a pedestrian friendly experience at the lane edges
by the use of down lighting and more substantial planting at
grade.
Note to Applicant: The lane edge planting should be protected
from vehicles by an 8” high curb.
11. Design development to resolve grade changes near property lines
using a terraced, landscape approach.
Note to Applicant: Any necessary transition to raised patios
should be done by setting patio retaining walls away from the
property line 2 feet minimum with planting at grade in front.
Walls higher than three feet should be avoided. Exposed walls
should have high quality surfacing and be softened with planting.
12. Design development to include additional site furniture along
Cambie Street edge and along West 32nd Avenue frontage. With
the retention of the corner trees there may be an opportunity to
embellish the corner edges.
13. Provision of an updated, detailed arborist report.
Note to Applicant: The expanded report should inform the
design. Include any construction limitations such as the location
of construction materials, temporary structures, utility conflicts,

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 41
site access, development phasing and temporary irrigation
requirements.
14. Design consideration to provide sustainable rainwater
management practices such as rainwater collection and reuse.
15. Conditions to be addressed at development permit application,
provision of:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant
sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light
fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant
material should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should
be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
(ii) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’-0” scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours
and trellises, and other features. Planter section details
to be dimensioned to confirm depth of proposed growing
medium on structures is deep enough to accommodate
actual rootballs of proposed trees well into the future.
(iii) Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to
public realm interface facing the street and courtyard,
confirming a delineated and appropriate private to public
transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails,
fences and planters. The location of the underground
parking slab should be included in the section.
(iv) A “Tree Management Plan”.
Note to Applicant: Provide a large scale tree management
plan that is separate from the landscape plan and
consistent with the legal survey. The scaled plan should
clearly illustrate all trees to be removed and retained,
including dimensioned tree protection barriers and
important construction management directives drawn out
of the arborist report(s) such as clearly illustrating the
limit of excavation and footing design strategy (i.e.
vertical shoring, shotcrete).
(v) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 42
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
(vi) Trellis and vines over the underground garage access
ramp.
(vii) A high efficiency irrigation system for all planted areas
and hose bibs for all patios and common areas greater
than 100 sq. ft. Indicate hose bibs on the plans and add
notation regarding high efficiency irrigation system in
general notes.
(viii) Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen
lane edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a
manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and
public realm.
(ix) Application of universal design principles in the outdoor
spaces, such as wheelchair accessible walkways and site
furniture.
16. Design development to ensure locations of hydro kiosk in areas
screened by soft landscape, or in internal mechanical room. Any
other emergency generators, transformers or gas meters to be
located, integrated, and fully screened in a manner which
minimizes their impact on the architectural expression and the
building’s open space and public realm.
17. Consideration to explore design options that respect the City of
Vancouver, Bird Friendly Design Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: For more information, refer to the guidelines
at http://www.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntB.pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntC.pdf.
18. Grades, retaining walls, walkways and structural elements, such
as underground parking, designed to provide maximum plant
growing depth (exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard).
Note to Applicant: Public and private trees at the site perimeter
should be planted at grade and not placed in above grade
planters to achieve soil depth, wherever possible. Variations in
the slab may be required in combination with appropriate
growing medium. In the horizontal plane, soils should be
contiguous, wherever possible. The underground slab should
angle downward at the corner (1 m across and 1.2 m downward)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 43
to accommodate private property trees and planting near the
property line.
19. Design development to improve the edge condition at the site
perimeter, within semi-private patio spaces and between
buildings.
Note to Applicant: Attention will be needed to ensure that
common areas (walkways, breezeway, patios, corridors) are
pedestrian friendly and visually clear, avoiding dead ends and
ambiguous way finding. Ground-oriented semiprivate residential
patios and areas between buildings should be more clearly
delineated, respecting CPTED principles (security, ownership,
safety). Grade resolution at the property lines should be
resolved on private property. Self-supporting architectural walls
exposed to the public realm should be surfaced or screened with
landscaping to mitigate opportunities for graffiti. Provide
additional large ornamental shrubs and small trees (instead of
hedging) in front of patios. Provide an interim wall for more
planting depth on the Green roof above the parking entry so
there is a minimum soil depth of 36” in the middle section. Pull
the south property line wall into the property a few feet to
soften the transition and avoid the extreme grade condition
between the properties. Review the lane south section/
elevation condition and provide a softer lower edge planting
condition and or plants to cascade over the wall.
20. Provision of a letter of assurance for arborist supervision.
Note to Applicant: Arborist supervision is typically necessary
when any work is required within a minimum root protection
zone of a retained tree. The arborist should discuss the details of
any supervision requirements within the arborist report,
particularly if the plans depict any work that encroaches into a
minimum root protection zone. Typically, an assurance letter
will outline up to four key construction points where the arborist
shall be contacted to attend the site. The letter must be signed
by the owner, the contractor and the arborist.
Sustainability
21. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing
buildings on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition
waste (excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 44
22. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits.
The strategy, along with the LEED checklist must be
incorporated into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED
Accredited Professional or Administrator must confirm that the
proposed strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the
rezoning policy. Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be
provided with the application and the project registration
number incorporated into the drawings. Application for
Certification will be required at a subsequent stage.
Housing
23. The proposed unit mix of at least 66% two-bedroom units and
20% three- or four-bedroom units are to be included in the
Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any change to the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 25% two-bedroom units.
Engineering Services
24. Provision of a storm water management plan that confirms that
site runoff will not increase from the existing levels as a result of
this development.
25. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s).
26. Clearly show a stair free route from bicycle storage rooms to
grade.
27. Provision of additional design grades at all entries along the
property line clearly confirming entries meet City building
grades.
28. Provision of an upgraded landscape plan that reflects the
improvements sought by this rezoning. Please submit a copy of
the updated plan directly to Engineering Services for review.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 45
29. Delete special sidewalk treatments that encroach beyond the
property line and show standard broom finished saw cut
sidewalks.
30. Delete lawn or greenery and concrete parking entry ramp shown
encroaching over the lane property line on the landscape plans
(L1.1).
31. Provision of widened access from the garbage storage area to
the garbage pickup point. (Existing plans show a 3’-8” aisle
which is not adequate for bin access to and from the garbage
area.) Please refer to the engineering services garbage and
recycling guidelines for direction on space requirements.
32. Confirmation that the first risers for stairs on West 32nd Avenue
frontage are set 1’-0” behind the property lines.
33. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Please refer to the Parking and Loading Design Guidelines at the
following link:
(http://former.vancouver.ca/engsvcs/parking/admin/developer
s.htm)
(i) Provision of an improved section drawing showing
minimum vertical clearances.
Note to Applicant: 2.3 m of vertical clearance to the
underside of all security gates, plumbing and pipes is
required for access and maneuvering from street level to
all disability spaces.
(ii) Modification of the P1 and P2 parking ramp design.
Provide measures to address conflicts between vehicles
on the ramp. Due to restricted sight lines between P1 and
P2, a warning light/signal system is required. A qualified
transportation engineer must provide details on the
system and locations of all lights, signs and detection
devices to be clearly noted on the plans.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner, make
arrangements for the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 46
Engineering
1. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of upgraded street lighting and new pedestrian
LED lighting adjacent the site;
(ii) Provision of a 1.83 m (6 ft.) CIP broom finish concrete
sidewalk with saw cut joints, and upgraded LED street
lighting on West 32nd Avenue;
(iii) Provision of a standard concrete lane entry at West 32nd
Avenue;
(iv) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits;
(v) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required; and
(vi) Provision for road re-construction on Cambie Street
adjacent to the site to generally include: new concrete
curb and gutter, 2.5 m (8’-3”) raised cycle track, 1.83 m
(6’-0”) CIP broom finish concrete sidewalk with saw cut
control joints and sod boulevards. Work to include all
utility relocations necessary to accommodate the
proposed bicycle facility and related street works.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements
are subject to completion and adoption of the Cambie
Corridor Public Realm Plan.
2. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 47
transformers and kiosks (including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be
located on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features. There will be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch. The applicant may be required to show details of how
the site will be provided with all services being underground.
Environmental Contamination
3. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
4. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $959,310
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be
made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the
City and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The $959,310 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $479,655 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Cambie Corridor Plan area;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 48
(ii) $383,724 (40%) towards childcare and community
facilities serving the community in and around the
Cambie Corridor Plan area; and
(iii) $95,931 (10%) towards the Heritage Conservation Reserve
to increase heritage conservation in the City of
Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated July 11, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 618 West 32nd Avenue”.
C. THAT A and B be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and the expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02258)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 49
4. REZONING: 8242 Oak Street
An application by IBI Group was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 8242 Oak Street from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District and
C-1 (Commercial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to
permit the development of an eight-storey mixed-use building containing a
total of 50 dwelling units, office space, and commercial space. A height of
29.4 m (97 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 3.00 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 13 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
• 2 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Devon Hussack
Rebecca Hartley
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Don Larson
Jacqueline Chan
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:38 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 50
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by IBI Group on behalf of Coromandel Oak 67 Holdings BT
Ltd. and Coromandel Oak 67 Development BT Ltd., the registered owner, to
rezone 8242 Oak Street [Lot A (See 356574L) and Lot 13, except the east 10
feet and the west 7 feet now highways, both of Lot 15, Block B, District Lots
319, 323 and 324, Plan 1685; PIDs: 014-436-078 and 014-435-942 respectively]
from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District and C-1 (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR)
to 3.00 FSR and to increase the height to 29.4 m (97 ft.), to permit the
development of an eight-storey mixed-use building, containing a total of 50
dwelling units, office space, and commercial space, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1
Rezoning: 8242 Oak Street”, be approved subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by IBI Group on behalf of Coromandel
Properties, and stamped “Received Planning and Development Services
(Rezoning Centre), December 19, 2016”, provided that the Director of
Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of development when
approving the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to better animate the public plaza, per
section ‘10.2 Open Spaces and Plazas’ in the Marpole Community
Plan, as follows:
(i) Provide active ground floor uses at grade at the east side
of the plaza, with access from the plaza and/or 67th
Avenue.
(ii) Reduce the at-grade setback from the active use to the
south property line and provide hardscaping, in order to
provide a defined, animated edge to the public realm,
per section ‘7.1 Mixed Use Buildings’ of the Marpole
Community Plan.
Note to Applicant: Active ground floor uses facing the plaza
could include retail or amenity space. Refer to conditions 8 and
9 regarding further design development of the plaza.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 51
2. Design development to simplify massing at the rear by
eliminating the bump-out at Level 8 (between gridlines 4 and 5).
Note to Applicant: The 8 ft. setback may be slightly reduced (to
minimum 7 ft.) to accommodate more livable dwelling unit
layouts.
3. Design development to improve the interface of the podium
with the public realm on Oak Street and at the plaza.
(i) Reduction in the size of the office lobby to maximize
retail space;
(ii) Consideration to relocate the office entry to the north
end of the Oak Street façade or to the plaza, to ensure
contiguous retail space;
(iii) Provide a greater articulation along the primary retail
frontage, including niches or inset areas;
(iv) Provide a weather canopy or canopies with distinctive
architectural character;
(v) Refine use of exterior materials with greater texture,
visual interest and variety; and
(vi) Refine use of lighting, landscaping and urban furniture.
4. Design development to improve the outdoor amenity spaces by
providing further opportunities for children’s active play.
5. The proposed unit mix, including 23 one-bedroom units (46%),
20 two-bedroom units (40%) and 7 three-bedroom units (14%),
is to be included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the Director
of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that it does not
go lower than 25% two-bedroom and 10% three-bedroom units.
6. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the building
is encouraged in the application for a development permit.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for
examples of built features that may be applicable. For more
information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 52
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
7. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
8. Design development to the public plaza area to increase pedestrian
amenity through the provision of tree canopy, permanent site
furniture, artistic elements and/or public art (where applicable).
Note to Applicant: Further work may be requested at the
development permit stage.
9. Design development to the slab in the public plaza area to ensure
that all trees are planted level with the plaza surface and with a
minimum growing medium below slab containing soil volume targets
of 16 cubic metres. For each tree, growing medium should be
approximately 1 m deep and no less than 2 m radially, measured
from the trunk. Soil cells, structural soils and contiguous planting
troughs should be explored.
10. Design development to the rooftop amenity space to meet the
requirement for 25% green roof area as a combination of adequately
sized urban agriculture planters and other intensive and extensive
green roof features.
11. Design development of the rainwater management strategy and
related grey water/mechanical systems to be scaled and integrated
with full infiltration from hard and soft surfaces within the site, to
the greatest extent practicable.
Note to Applicant: The applicant is encouraged to reference the
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP), Volume II, Best
Management Practices, supported by Council in April 2016. At the
development permit stage, further design development may be
requested.
12. Design development to locate site utilities and vents on private
property and integrated discreetly into the building, avoiding
landscaped and common areas.
13. Design development to reduce potable water consumption in the
irrigation systems by using drought tolerant plant species, efficient
irrigation rainwater technology and rainwater harvesting methods,
to the greatest extent practicable.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 53
14. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscape treatment.
Note to Applicant: The Landscape Plan should include a planting
plan listing common and botanical name, size and quantity of all
existing/proposed plant material. Plant material should be clearly
illustrated on the Landscape Plan and keyed to the plant list.
Illustrate and clarify all outdoor surface/paving materials, site
furniture, bicycle racks, lighting, trash receptacles, hose bibs, signs,
retaining wall treatment, parking vents, at-grade utilities, and
public realm (building edge to the curb, street trees, lamp posts,
fire hydrants, sidewalk treatment).
15. Provision of large-scale sections [typical] through landscaped areas,
including the ground-oriented interface, the slab-patio-planter
relationship, street trees, the lane interface, common areas and
upper storey planters.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree canopy, tree stem, outline of the root ball,
voiding, built up membrane and dimensions.
16. Provision of spot elevations to all outdoor areas (including
top/bottom walls), including offsite context spot elevations
in proximity (public sidewalks, inner boulevards and lanes).
17. Provision of adequate soil volumes and depths for planning on slabs
and in planters.
Note to Applicant: To ensure the long-term viability of planting in
non-continuous growing medium, soil depths must meet or exceed
BCLNA planting standards. At the edges, new slabs should angle
down to provide deeper soils. Within the site at the public plaza
level, the slab must be lowered below to avoid the necessity for
above grade planter walls that would impede pedestrian flow.
18. Provision of universal design principles in the outdoor spaces.
Note to Applicant: Special consideration should be given to the
ground plane, including paving materials, grade changes, benches
near entrances on site and at reasonable intervals for public use
along shared circulation routes.
19. Provision of a “Tree Removal and Protection Plan” in coordination
with arboricultural services, including the assessment of existing
trees and retention feasibility.
Note to Applicant: Given the size and complexity of the site, provide
a large-scale Tree Plan that is separate from the Landscape Plan.
The Tree Plan should clearly illustrate all trees to be removed
and/or retained, where applicable, including any tree protection
barriers and important construction management directives drawn

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 54
out of the arborist report(s). Tree replacements are likely best
located on the proposed phased landscape plans.
20. Provision of a partial irrigation plan to demonstrate efficient
irrigation system for all common outdoor planters (existing and new)
and individual hose bibs to be provided for all patios of 9.3 sq. m
(100 sq. ft.) or greater in size.
Note to Applicant: Specification notes and irrigation symbols should
be added to the drawing.
21. Provision of all necessary infrastructure to support urban
agriculture, including hose bibs, tool storage, work tables and
seating.
Sustainability
22. Confirm that the building is on track to meet the requirements of
the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as amended up
to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63 points (LEED® Gold
rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and stormwater
management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as compared to
ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and application for
certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be submitted
as part of the Development Permit that articulates which credits the
applicant will be pursuing and how their building application, as
submitted, incorporates strategies, features or technologies that
will help achieve these credits. The strategy, along with the LEED
checklist, must be incorporated into the drawing submission. A
letter from a LEED Accredited Professional or Administrator must
confirm that the proposed strategy aligns with the applicable goals
of the rezoning policy. Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be
provided with the application and the project registration number
incorporated into the drawings. Application for Certification will be
required at a subsequent stage.
23. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 22, the applicant
may choose the meet the requirements of the Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), including all
requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House
certified or alternate near zero emissions standard approved by the
Director of Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 55
Engineering
24. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation and construction (i.e.
consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent private
property to construct from) and be aware that a minimum 60 days
lead time for any major crane erection/removal or slab pour that
requires additional street use beyond the already identified project
street use permissions.
25. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from the
location shown without reliance of the lane for extended bin
storage. If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.
26. Delete special treatments shown extending onto the City lane and
beyond the 67th Avenue and Oak Street property lines.
27. Show standard commercial sidewalk treatments on Oak Street
adjacent the site and residential treatments on 67th Avenue
adjacent the site including standard four piece tree surrounds where
new street trees are supplied.
28. Provision of a detailed landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought by this rezoning. Please submit an updated
landscape plan directly to Engineering for review.
29. Provision of all Class B bike parking to be installed on private
property and not encroaching on public property and clear of any
SRWs.
30. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
31. Provision of direct ‘stairs free’ loading access from the loading bay
to the CRU and commercial elevator core.
Note to Applicant: Consider providing a loading dock, loading
elevator or lift, or sloping the loading corridor to achieve this. The
loading corridor shall not require access through the garbage room.
32. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services as
follows:
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay and at
all entrances.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 56
Note to Applicant: The slope must not exceed 10% for the
first 20 ft. from the property line. The slope must not exceed
12.5% after the first 20 ft. from the property line. 15% slope
may be acceptable if a 7.5% to 10% transition ramp is
provided at the bottom for at least 4 m in length.
(ii) Dimension all stall widths and column encroachment widths.
Note to Applicant: If columns encroach more than 0.15 m
(6 in.) into the stall from the stall dividing line, additional
stall width is required. The column width along gridline 7 are
dimensioned 8 1/8” on drawing A31B and A31C.
(iii) Dimension the width of the overhead gate at gridline 5/D on
drawing A31C as a minimum 6.1 m (20 ft.) is required.
(iv) Provision of the minimum vertical clearance for the main
ramp, security gates and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: Show the overhead gate on the parking
ramp on drawing A42 noting the minimum vertical clearance
at the gate. 2.3 m (7.6 ft.) of vertical clearance is required
for access and maneuvering to all disability spaces. 3.5 m
(11.5 ft.) of vertical clearance is required for Class B loading
spaces and maneuvering.
(v) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route from
the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required. ‘Stairs free’
access is required for the bike room at gridline A/3 on
drawing A31C.
(vi) Provide an alcove for the bike room access off the
maneuvering aisle.
(vii) Modification to the column outside of the bike room at
gridline E/8 on drawing A31C to provide a clear 4 ft. wide
access aisle or delete stall 18.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 57
Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lot A (See 356574L) and Lot 13, except the east
10 feet and the west 7 feet now highways, both of Lot 15, Block
B, District Lots 319, 323 and 324, Plan 1685 to create a single
parcel.
2. Release of Easement and Indemnity Agreement 447013M
(commercial crossing) prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Provision of a building setback and a surface statutory right-of-
way (SRW) on Oak Street adjacent the site to achieve a minimum
of 5.5 m (18 ft.) from the back of the existing City curb to the
building face. A legal survey of the existing dimension from the
back of the City curb to the property line is required to
determine the final setback and SRW dimension. The SRW will be
free of any encumbrance such as structure, stairs, door swing,
landscape and bicycle parking at grade but the encroaching
building portions shown below grade and at the third storey and
above will be accommodated within the SRW agreement.
4. Provision of a plaza statutory right-of-way (SRW) agreement for
the public use of the plaza as proposed in the Marpole
Community Plan. The encroaching building portions shown below
grade and at the third storey and above will be accommodated
within the SRW agreement.
5. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on- and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called “the services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services
are provided. No development permit will be issued until the
security for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 58
(ii) Provision of an upgraded sewer main by twinning the
sewer main on Oak Street from 67th Avenue to
approximately 83 m north of 67th Avenue (to existing
manhole), or provision of a report or management plan by
a registered professional demonstrating that post
development stormwater run-off flowrates for the one in
five year storm will be less than or equal to current site
run-off flowrates. Legal arrangements may be required to
ensure ongoing operations of certain stormwater storage
systems.
(iii) Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right-of-way.
(iv) Provisions of new cast-in-place (CIP) light broom finish
concrete sidewalk adjacent the site with saw cut joints
on Oak Street and 67th Avenue to current area standards.
(v) Provision of street reconstruction on 67th Avenue
adjacent the site to generally include the following:
a. New curb and gutter.
b. A 2.5 m (8.2 ft.) wide raised protected bike lane.
c. A minimum 2.13 m (7 ft.) wide CIP light broom
finish concrete sidewalk with saw cut joints.
d. Curb ramps.
e. Relocation of the fire hydrant.
f. Adjustments to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed street improvements.
(vi) Provision of new curb and gutter and removal of the
existing driveway crossings on Oak Street.
(vii) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing including
replacement of the curb returns on both sides of the lane
and upgrading of the curb ramps to meet current
standards.
(viii) Provision of upgraded street lighting on all frontages
adjacent the site and new pedestrian lighting on 67th
Avenue. A review of the existing lighting is required to
determine its adequacy and upgraded lighting is to be
provided where required.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 59
(ix) Provision of signal upgrades or replacement of the
existing signal to a new full signal at the intersection of
Oak Street and 67th Avenue. This will include signal
modifications to accommodate the proposed separate
bicycle facility, an accessible pedestrian signal, an
Uninterrupted Power Supply unit and LED intersection
lighting. Work is to include all changes to City
infrastructure to accommodate the signal improvements.
(x) Provision of speed humps in the lane east of Oak Street
between 67th and 64th Avenues.
(xi) Provision of a relocated bus stop and shelter on Oak
Street adjacent the site. The following is required:
a. New bus stop to provisionally be located
approximately 18.3 m (60 ft.) from curb return
and crosswalk. The final stop location and layout
is to be determined by Engineering and Coast
Mountain Bus Company.
b. Modify site plan to show existing trolley poles
along Oak Street.
c. Remove proposed tree pit along Oak Street in the
bus zone. Street trees may only bookend the bus
zone, if space permits.
Note to Applicant: Removal and reinstallation of shelter
is to be coordinated with the Street Furniture
Coordinator in Street Activities Branch of Engineering
Services and a minimum of 4 weeks’ notice is required for
the removal/reinstallation of the bus shelter.
10. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad
mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro
kiosks) are to be located on private property with no reliance on
public property for placement of these features. There will be
no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing overhead
electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to
the existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 60
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Environmental Contamination
11. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
12. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $2,700,000
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be
made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the
City and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The $2,700,000 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $479,655 (50%) to the Affordable Housing Reserve to
increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Cambie Corridor Plan area;
(i) $1,215,000 toward childcare and community facilities in
and around the Marpole Community Plan area; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 61
(iii) $135,000 to the Heritage Conservation Reserve to enable
heritage conservation in the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, the application to amend the appropriate schedule of the Sign By-law
to establish regulations for this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of
the Policy Report dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
8242 Oak Street”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 8242 Oak Street”.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated September 5, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 8242 Oak Street”.
E. THAT A through D be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 62
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02259)
* * * * *
At 7:43 pm, Councillor Stevenson declared a conflict of interest on Item 5, due to a
close family member’s previous association with Ryerson United Church. He left the
Council Chamber and did not return to the meeting.
* * * * *
5. REZONING: a) 2165-2195 West 45th Avenue and b) 2205-2291 West 45th Avenue;
and Heritage Designation of the Ryerson Dunbar United Church
An application by Endall Elliot Associates was considered as follows:
Summary: a) To rezone 2165-2195 West 45th Avenue from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio from 0.70 to 2.47 and the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 30.2 m
(99 ft.) to permit development of an eight-storey residential development
including three-storey townhouses along 45th Avenue and four storeys along
the rear lane containing a total of 40 residential units, and
b) To rezone 2205-2291 West 45th Avenue from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio from 0.70 to 1.73 and the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 18.3 m
(60 ft.) to retain, restore and rehabilitate the heritage “A” listed Dunbar
Ryerson United Church and to permit development of a five-storey church
addition including a community activity centre and 32 social housing units.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated October 16, 2017, from the Assistant Director
of Planning, Vancouver South Division, advising that since referral to Public Hearing, staff had
determined that the following corrections were required:
• corrections to the proposed parking by-law amendments for both the East Site (2165-
2195 West 45th Avenue) and West Site (2205-2291 West 45th Avenue); and
• additional conditions to facilitate the potential relocation and/or salvage of the
existing character houses on both the East Site (2165-2195 West 45th Avenue) and
West Site (2205-2291 West 45th Avenue).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 63
Parking By-law Corrections
The proposed change to the parking by-law provisions was intended to clarify the
amendments in order to be consistent with the relaxation authority in the Parking By-law that
relates to all sites across the City. Accordingly, the following revisions to the draft Parking By-
law amendments as set out in Appendix C1 and C2 of the Policy Report dated August 22, 2017,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: a) 2165-2195 West 45th Avenue and b) 2205-2291 West 45th Avenue;
and Heritage Designation of the Ryerson Dunbar United Church”, were recommended (shown
below with strikeout to indicate deletion and bold italics to indicate insertion):
Appendix C1
Parking, loading and bicycle spaces to be in accordance with by-law requirements, except
that there must be:
(a) 1 Class A loading space to be provided.
(b) Parking is to be provided at the discretion of the Director of Planning in consultation
with the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Appendix C2
Parking, loading and bicycle spaces to be in accordance with by-law requirements, except
that there must be:
(a) 1 Class A and 1 Class B loading space to be provided, and
(b) Studio and 1 bedroom social housing be provided at a rate of 1 space for every
6 dwelling units., and
(c) Parking is to be provided at the discretion of the Director of Planning in consultation
with the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Existing Character Houses Conditions
In response to comments from the Vancouver Heritage Commission recommending
consideration for relocating and reusing the church rectory, the applicant had indicated that
they were willing to offer the existing houses for free to a potential owner who may be
interested in relocating and reusing the existing buildings. Accordingly, the following
additions to Recommendation A (e) of the Summary and Recommendation for this item were
recommended (shown below with bold italics to indicate insertion):
Heritage
31. Provision of a letter, signed by the applicant, which states that an application to
demolish the houses at 2165, 2267, 2279 and 2291 West 45th Avenue will not be
submitted until necessary for construction of the new development.
32. Provision of a letter, signed by the property owner, which states that they will
seek opportunities to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning to allow for
relocation or salvage of the houses at 2165, 2267, 2279 and 2291 West 45th
Avenue.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 64
Note to Applicant: Staff will consider options to expedite this process if an
opportunity to relocate one or more of the houses is presented.
It was noted that a correction was also required for the deconstruction conditions related to
the existing character houses to update the conditions to be consistent with the Green
Demolition By-law (By-law No. 11023). Accordingly, the following additions to
Recommendation A (b) and A (e) respectively of the Summary and Recommendations for this
item were recommended (shown below with strikeout to indicate deletion and bold italics to
indicate insertion):
Recommendation A (b)
8. Provision of a deconstruction plan for demolition of existing buildings on site except
for the character house at 2165 West 45th Avenue to divert at least 75% of
demolition waste (excluding materials banned from disposal) from the landfill. For the
existing house located at 2165 West 45th Avenue, provision of a deconstruction
plan for demolition to divert at least 90% (by weight) of demolition waste
(excluding materials banned from disposal) from the landfill.
Note to Applicant: The deconstruction plan should be provided at the time of
development permit application. The plan must be specific about materials that are
being diverted. A template plan is available for reference. Consideration should be
given for salvage for reuse for all building materials where possible. Please
contact Lisa Brideau, Senior Sustainability Specialist at 604-871-6586 for
potential salvage companies.
Recommendation A (e)
10. Provision of a deconstruction plan for demolition of existing buildings on site to divert
at least 75% of demolition waste (excluding materials banned from disposal) from the
landfill. Provision of a deconstruction plan for demolition to divert at least 90%
(by weight) of demolition waste (excluding materials banned from disposal) from
the landfill.
Note to Applicant: The deconstruction plan should be provided at the time of
development permit application. The plan must be specific about materials that are
being diverted. A template plan is available for reference. Consideration should be
given for salvage for reuse for all building materials where possible. Please
contact Lisa Brideau, Senior Sustainability Specialist at 604-871-6586 for
potential salvage companies.
It was noted that these changes required approval by Council to correct the parking by-law
provisions and add and update conditions related to the existing character houses.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 65
Applicant Comments
Debra Bowman, Dunbar Ryerson United Church and Gordon Esau, Dunbar Ryerson United
Church provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 108 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 36 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence in the “other” category.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Kathleen Barber
Lawrence Harris
Anne Clark
Elizabeth Finch
Norna Edmundson, Artistic Director, Elektra Women's Choir
Bill Chow
Jacqueline Kelly
Andre Rowland
Dorothy Hamilton
Merrilee Thompson
Arthur Ross
Ken Reeder
Patricia Palmer
Reilly Wood
Dr. Elinor Wilson
Sara Hanson
Brendan Dawe
Doug Smart
Nina Horvath, Executive Director, Vancouver Bach Choir
Stuart Smith
The following spoke in opposition or expressed opposition regarding specific aspects of the
application:
Dr. Tatiana van Riemsdijk
Douglas Dang
Suzanne Noetzel
Sylvia Ghoshal, Board Chairperson, Bumblebee Preschool Society

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 66
Jim Hall, Chair, ARKS Vision Committee
Katherine Riechert, Sub-Committee Chair, ARKS Vision Committee
Elizabeth Thomas
William Harvey
Nancy Cowley
* * * * *
At 9:22 pm, during the hearing of speakers on Item 5, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be extended to finish hearing from speakers and close receipt of
public comments.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQURIED MAJORITY
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
At 9:40 pm the Mayor left the meeting and Acting Mayor Louie assumed the Chair.
Mayor Robertson returned to the meeting at 9:55 pm and resumed as Chair of the meeting.
* * * * *
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:18 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Ms. Bowman and Mr. Esau Gordon, both from Dunbar Ryerson United Church, responded to
points raised by the speakers and provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing comments.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT discussion and decision on Item 5 be referred to the Regular Council meeting on
Tuesday, October 31, 2017, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 17, 2017 67
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Stevenson absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:34 pm.
* * * * *