REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OCTOBER 4, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
was held on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 9:37 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor,
City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Andrea Reimer, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball, Vice-Chair
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal*
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie*
ABSENT: Councillor Tim Stevenson (Medical Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged that we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tseil-Waututh First Nations.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Jang
THAT items 2 and 3 be adopted on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Deal, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 4, 2017 2
1. Presentation – Homelessness Services Update
The General Manager of Community Services introduced the Homelessness Services Update.
Homelessness Services staff provided a presentation on the topics set out below, and, along
with the City Manager, responded to questions.
• Homeless Count 2017
Final Results of the 2017 Metro Vancouver Homeless Count
o
• Shelter Strategy
Temporary Shelters
o
Warming Centres
o
Housing First -Temporary Modular Homes
o
2. Temporary Modular Housing Contract Approval
September 25, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize the Chief Executive Officer of the Vancouver
Affordable Housing Agency (“VAHA”) to negotiate an agreement or agreements
(collectively, the “Construction Agreements”) with Horizon North Camp and
Catering Partnership (“Horizon North”) for the design and construction of up to
600 units of temporary modular housing on sites to be selected by the General
Manager of Community Services, all as further described in the Administrative
Report dated September 25, 2017, entitled “Temporary Modular Housing
Contract Approval”.
B. THAT, following execution of the Construction Agreements, Council authorize
that all such agreements be assigned to the BC Housing Management
Commission (“BC Housing”), prior to any costs being incurred by the City
pursuant to the agreements.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services, the Chief Purchasing Official, and the
Chief Executive Officer of the Vancouver Affordable Housing Authority (VAHA),
be authorized to execute on behalf of the City:
i. the Construction Agreements; and
ii. any assignment and assumption agreements necessary to give
effect to B above.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of
A through C above unless and until the applicable agreements are executed by
the authorized signatories of all relevant parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02230)
(Councillors Deal, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 4, 2017 3
3. #78 - 1055 Canada Place - B.C. Pavilion Corporation -
Liquor Primary Licence Application
August 30, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council, having considered the opinion of local area residents and business
operators as determined by neighbourhood notification, site sign, noise impacts and
relevant Council policy as outlined in the Administrative Report dated August 30, 2017,
entitled “#78 - 1055 Canada Place - B.C. Pavilion Corporation - Liquor Primary Licence
Application”, endorse the request by B.C. Pavilion Corporation (C Lounge) for a new
Liquor Primary Licence (Liquor Establishment Class 2 – lounge) located within the West
building of the Vancouver Convention Centre at #78 – 1055 Canada Place subject to:
i. A maximum capacity of 80 persons;
ii. Hours of operation from 11 am to 1 am, seven days a week;
iii. A time-limited Development Permit;
iv. An acoustic report to be submitted certifying that the establishment
meets Noise Control By-law requirements; and
v. Signing a Good Neighbour Agreement with the City prior to business
licence issuance.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02231)
(Councillors Deal, Louie and Mayor Robertson absent for the vote)
4. Walk for Reconciliation Commemorations
At the Regular Council meeting on October 3, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred
this matter to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
October 4, 2017, in order to obtain additional information.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
The following contains changes to the original motion that were accepted by the Committee.
WHEREAS
1. On National Indigenous Peoples Day 2013, the City of Vancouver became the
first city in Canada to proclaim a Year of Reconciliation between indigenous
and non-indigenous peoples;
2. Over the course of the Year of Reconciliation, the City worked together with
the three local First Nations, urban indigenous people and Reconciliation
Canada to undertake many events that had three objectives:
• Make the space for indigenous people to speak the truth about the
harms caused to them by colonization;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 4, 2017 4
• Make the space for non-indigenous people to acknowledge that they
have heard these truths; and
• Find a new pathway forward together;
3. The centerpiece was Canada’s first ever Walk for Reconciliation, which
saw over 70,000 people gather at the plaza adjacent to the Queen Elizabeth
Theatre (referenced as "QE Plaza" below) in a torrential September downpour
to walk together in recognition of residential school survivors, and to
acknowledge those that did not survive, after a week of testimony at the
Truth and Reconciliation Commission national event at the PNE grounds;
4. In the interval since 2013, the City has declared itself a City of Reconciliation
and significant work has been done to advance social, economic, environmental
and other policies that to recognize the inherent courage, resilience and
rights of indigenous people and help ensure that the local First Nations are
once again visible in their traditional homelands, but to date no prominent
public space in downtown Vancouver carries the name or visual identity of the
local First Nations;
5. 2017 is the 150th anniversary of Confederation and under the banner of "150+,"
City Council unanimously committed to significantly advancing reconciliation
this year;
6. As one of the Signature Events for 150+, a 2nd Walk for Reconciliation was held
on September 24, 2017, which again saw tens of thousands of residents gather
together in the “QE Plaza” with reflection and remembrance, but also a
celebration of the work that’s been done;
7. The “QE Plaza” also was the home of the Four Host Nations Pavilion during the
2010 Olympics;
8. For decades the Vancouver Art Gallery north plaza has been a central gathering
place for public protests, celebrations, and rallies, and a space where
Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples have pushed to make our city
acknowledge its injustices and work towards greater understanding;
9. These two public plazas do not have official names or even consistent informal
names used by the community.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT
A. With advice from the Vancouver Civic Theatres Board, the City work with the
Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations to find an appropriate
name and a commemoration of the Walks for Reconciliation for the plaza
adjacent to the Queen Elizabeth Theatre, in recognition of the significant role
the plaza has played in both historic events.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 4, 2017 5
B. The City work with the Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh First Nations and
the Province of BC to determine an appropriate name and an acknowledgement
of the three local First Nations for the Vancouver Art Gallery north plaza, the
most utilized public space in Vancouver, to ensure the work of reconciliation
remains visible to all people present and future in Vancouver.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02229)
The Committee adjourned at 11:10 am.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OCTOBER 4, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
October 4, 2017, at 11:11 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the
recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
ABSENT: Councillor Tim Stevenson (Medical Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Lori Isfeld, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
October 4, 2017
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Presentation – Homelessness Services Update
2. Temporary Modular Housing Contract Approval
3. #78 - 1055 Canada Place - B.C. Pavilion Corporation -
Liquor Primary Licence Application
4. Walk for Reconciliation Commemorations

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, October 4, 2017 2
Items 1 to 4
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities at its meeting of October 4, 2017, as contained in items 1 to 4,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 11:12 am.
* * * * *