PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 19 AND 21, 2017
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, September 19, 2017, at
6:07 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the Public Hearing
recessed and reconvened on Thursday, September 21, 2017, at 6:07 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson*
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Elizabeth Ball (Leave of Absence – Medical Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Janice MacKenzie, City Clerk
Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Maria Castro, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 2
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor
Robertson opposed)
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: 2017 Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Density Bonus
Contributions
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to implement inflationary
adjustments to the Density Bonus Contributions by increasing the values of
the affordable housing shares and the amenity shares in the RM-8 and RM-8N
Districts Schedule and in the RM-9, RM-9A, RM-9N, RM-9AN, and RM-9BN
Districts Schedule.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT, the amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law, generally as presented
in Schedule A of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “2017 Inflationary
Rate Adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions”, to increase the values of the
affordable housing shares and the amenity shares in the RM-8 and RM-8N Districts
Schedule and in the RM-9, RM-9A, RM-9N, RM-9AN, and RM-9BN Districts Schedule, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02202)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 3
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 – Amendment to the
General Regulations to Delegate Discretionary Relaxation Powers to Expedite the
Delivery of Low Cost Housing for Persons Receiving Assistance
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend Section 3, Administration, of the Zoning and Development By-law
to delegate authority to the Director of Planning or the Development Permit
Board, as the case may be, to relax zoning provisions to facilitate the
approval of developments where at a minimum of 70% of all dwelling units
within the development are used for low cost housing for persons receiving
assistance. The proposed amendments specifically state that the Director of
Planning or Development Permit Board’s authority to relax zoning
regulations does not apply in any of the City’s RS and many RT zones.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated September 6, 2017, from the Acting Assistant
Director of Planning, Midtown Division, advising that since referral, staff had determined that
a correction was required to the list of zoning districts that could not be considered for
relaxation provisions for low cost housing, and that the Temporary Modular Housing Design
Guidelines considered and approved in principle by Council at a public hearing in
December 2016 (but not adopted) were proposed to be replaced with updated design
guidelines and a motion to adopt the updated guidelines was proposed as a new
recommendation.
The memorandum also set out a proposed correction to section 3.2.9 (c) of the Zoning and
Development By-law regarding relaxations for low cost housing for persons receiving
assistance, and included updated Temporary Modular Housing Guidelines for Council’s
consideration.
The posted by-laws and Summary and Recommendation had been prepared with the
above-noted proposed changes.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application and, along with
Kenny Gilbertson, Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency, the General Manager of Community
Services, and the City Manager, responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 4
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 1 piece of correspondence in support of the application;
• 9 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Mark Freeman
Sandra Medeiros
Ellen Yeung
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:54 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided closing comments.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to delegate
to the Director of Planning or the Development Permit Board the discretionary
power to relax the provisions of the Zoning and Development By-law for
proposed developments where a minimum of 70% of all dwelling units in the
development provide for low cost housing for persons receiving assistance,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 24, 2017,
entitled “Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 - Amendment to the
General Regulations to Delegate Discretionary Relaxation Powers to Expedite
the Delivery of Low Cost Housing for Persons Receiving Assistance”, and with
the amendments as set out in the memorandum dated September 6, 2017, from
the Acting Assistant Director of Planning, Midtown Division, be approved.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 5
B. THAT Council approve the revised Temporary Modular Housing Design
Guidelines, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the memorandum dated
September 6, 2017, which will replace the Temporary Modular Housing Design
Guidelines previously approved in principle by Council as Appendix B of the
Policy Report dated October 25, 2016, entitled “Temporary Modular Housing
Definition and Regulations: Proposed Amendments to Existing City-Owned CD-1
Sites, and Design Guidelines.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02203)
3. REZONING: 618 West 32nd Avenue - WITHDRAWN
* * * * *
At 7:26 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the order of the agenda be varied to deal with Item 7 last, and in the event all
agenda items are not completed, Council will recess at 10 pm and reconvene on
Thursday, September 21, 2017, at 6 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
4. TEXT AMENDMENT: East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan – Development
Phasing Amendment
An application by Park Lane River District Developments Ltd. (Wesgroup Properties) was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan (EFL ODP)
By-Law, to adjust Section 6, Development Phasing, to allow development of
the Town Square Precinct to proceed concurrently with the Waterfront
Precinct.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 6
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:34 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Park Lane River District Developments Ltd. (Wesgroup
Properties), the registered owners, to amend the East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan (EFL ODP) By-Law No. 9393, generally as set out in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 14, 2017, entitled “East Fraser
Lands Official Development Plan – Development Phasing Amendment”, be
approved.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of
funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the
expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02204)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 7
5. REZONING: 6137 Cambie Street (Chinese Presbyterian Church)
An application by GBL Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (12) (Comprehensive Development) District for
6137 Cambie Street (Chinese Presbyterian Church) to increase the floor
space ratio from 0.635 to 3.08 and the height from 9.1 m (30 ft.) to 25.6 m
(84 ft.) to permit the development of a seven-storey mixed-use building
with a replacement church, private childcare and 20 for-profit affordable
rental housing units.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 1 piece of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:38 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by GBL Architecture Inc. on behalf of the Trustees of the
Chinese Presbyterian Church, the registered owners, to rezone
6137 Cambie Street [PID: 009-300-970; Lot 2 of Lot B, Block 1008, District
Lot 526, Plan 10803] from CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District (12)
By-law No. 3907 to a new CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.635 to 3.08 and the height from
9.1 m (30 ft.) to 25.6 m (84 ft.) to permit the development of a seven-storey
mixed-use building with a replacement church, private childcare and 20
for-profit affordable rental housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A
of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6137 Cambie
Street (Chinese Presbyterian Church)”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 8
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by GBL Architecture Inc. on behalf of
the Chinese Presbyterian Church, and stamped “Received Planning and
Development Services (Rezoning Centre), December 21, 2016”, provided
that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Consideration to carry out further design development of the
Cambie Street elevation to simplify the church expression and
relate the placement of the external cross to internal church
worship space.
2. Design development to enhance the open space on
Cambie Street to support a greater degree of gathering and
mingling albeit on a busy street.
Note to Applicant: This may entail re-examining the grading
design and may also include the use of landscape solutions to
provide pedestrian scale and shading.
3. Design development of the proposal to ensure the use of and
retention of high quality, durable materials at any and all
subsequent phases of the approval process, including for a
development application and any future amendment(s).
4. The proposed unit mix, including 2 one-bedroom units (10%),
16 two-bedroom units (80%) and 2 three-bedroom units (10%), is
to be included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit
mix from the rezoning application may only be varied under the
discretion of the Director of Planning or Development Permit
Board provided that it does not go lower than 35% of the
dwelling units designed to be suitable for families with children.
5. Submission of a bird-friendly strategy for the design of the
building is encouraged in the application for a development
permit.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 9
Note to Applicant: Note to Applicant: Refer to the Bird-Friendly
Design Guidelines for examples of built features that may be
applicable. For more information, see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
7. Design development to the integration of the architecture,
grades, retaining walls, walkways and structural elements, such
as underground parking, to provide maximum plant growing
depth (to exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard).
Note to Applicant: Variations in the slab may be required in
combination with appropriate growing medium. In the horizontal
plan, soils should be contiguous, whenever possible. To
accommodate trees in planters near property lines, the
underground parking to angle downward at the corner (1 m
across and 1.2 m deep).
8. Design development for the responsible protection of
neighbouring trees and vegetation.
Note to Applicant: This will require further analysis in
coordination with a certified arborist.
9. Design development to locate site utilities and vents onto
private property and integrated discreetly into the building,
avoiding landscaped and common areas.
Note to Applicant: This includes the exploration of opportunities
to screen the pad mounted transformer at the lane with a trellis
and gates. Further coordination with BC Hydro will be necessary.
10. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscape treatment.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 10
Note to Applicant: Plant material should be clearly illustrated on
the Landscape Plan and keyed to a standard Plant List. The
Landscape Plan should include all exterior hard and soft surface
elements (site furniture, gates, fences, surfaces, screens, and
walls) the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing
or proposed street trees, adjoining landscaping/grades and
public utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles or fire hydrants.
11. Provision of an Arborist Report.
Note to Applicant: For Arborist Report requirements, refer to
section 7.2 of the Protection of Trees By-law.
12. Provision of a Tree Plan.
Note to Applicant: Provide a Tree Plan that is separate from the
Landscape Plan and consistent with the survey and Arborist
Report. The scaled plan should be accurate and clearly illustrate
all trees to be removed and retained, including off-site trees and
any necessary tree protection barriers. Tree replacements can
be shown on the proposed landscape planting plans.
13. Illustration of measures that support integrated rainwater
management, including absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and
detention technology.
Note to Applicant: A brief written rationale should also be
provided to describe the rainwater management strategy.
14. Provision of large scale, dimensioned, landscape sections
through planted areas.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree stem, canopy and root ball including the
slab-patio-planter relationship, the lane interface, common
areas and upper patios.
15. Provision of high-efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
individual hose bibs for all private patios of 9.29 sq. m
(100 sq. ft.) or larger.
Note to Applicant: Provide a separate partial irrigation plan (one
sheet size only) that illustrates symbols for hose bib and stub out
locations. There should be accompanying written notes on the
same plan and/or landscape plan describing the intent and/or
standards of irrigation.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 11
Social Policy
16. Design development to ensure that the 68-space childcare
(including 12 toddler spaces, 16 full-day preschool spaces and 40
part-time, part-day preschool spaces) is licensable by
Community Care Facilities Licensing and meets the intent of the
City’s Childcare Design Guidelines.
17. Design development to ensure that the indoor and outdoor
spaces of the childcare are designed to maximize opportunities
for healthy child development while ensuring an operationally
sustainable facility for the operator.
18. Design development of the outdoor childcare space should
maximize solar access, ensure maximum visibility for
supervision, and accommodate adequate storage on-site for
program equipment and strollers (parent and program).
Sustainability
19. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing
buildings on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75% of demolition
waste (excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
20. Any new building in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of 63
points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 12
21. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 20, the
applicant may choose the meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings
(i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions
standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions
Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Engineering
22. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation and
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use
beyond the already identified project street use permissions.
23. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from
the location shown without reliance of a lane for extended bin
storage. If this cannot be confirmed then an on-site garbage bin
staging area is to be provided adjacent the lane.
24. First riser to be 1 ft. behind property line.
25. Delete specialty sidewalk treatments from public property and
show standard broom finish sidewalks.
26. Provision of Class B bicycle parking spaces on the private
property.
27. Provision of a landscape plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought by this rezoning.
28. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay,
and at all entrances.
(ii) Provision of a 6 ft. x 6 ft. corner cut through the inside
radius at the bottom of the main parking ramp to enable
two vehicles to pass each other unobstructed.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 13
(iii) Provision of updated section drawings showing the
overhead gates at the loading bay, main parkade ramp
and the residential parking with the minimum vertical
clearances at the gates shown on the drawings.
Note to Applicant: Consider provision of full-size parking
spaces for daycare pick-up/drop-off stalls.
(iv) Modify column placement and stall widths to comply with
the requirements of the Engineering Parking and Design
Supplement.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the three parking spaces on
the P1 and P2 parking levels at the southwest corner of
the parkade. Parking spaces are to be centered on the 1
ft. columns with a maximum 6 in. encroachment into
each parking stall and provide additional parking stall
width for stalls adjacent to walls or stalls with columns
set back more than 4 ft. from the end of the stall. Small
car single module stalls require 8 ft. 10 in. stall width.
(v) Design development to provide internal, stair-free
loading access from the Class B loading bay to all uses.
(vi) Modification of the loading bay design to include a
standard loading bay throat width and direct loading
access from the rear of the bay to the loading corridor to
facilitate ease of loading and unloading.
(vii) Provision of automatic door openers on the doors
providing access to the bicycle room(s).
(viii) Provision of an updated plan showing the access route for
Class A bicycles to reach the outside. Confirm if the main
parkade ramp or the elevator is to be used.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Clearly show the two areas defined by Explanatory Plan 6647
(Right of Way Agreement 327984M – for utilities) on all pertinent
application plans and either delete all structures proposed

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 14
within the two right-of-way (ROW) areas or make arrangements
with the utility companies and the City for possible cancellation
of the ROW. Confirmation that poles can be relocated or guy
wires eliminated and ROW cancelled will be required from all
affected utilities including any City utilities that use the wood
poles.
2. Provision of a Shared Use Loading Agreement between all uses on
site for the Class B loading bay.
3. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on- and off-site
works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the
site (collectively called “the services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights-of-way for the services
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued
until the security for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current
application lacks the details to determine if sewer main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including floor area, project fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer to determine if
sewer system upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any sewer system upgrading that may be required.
(iii) Should removal or relocation of the wood poles in the
lane result in the elimination of the existing lane lighting
then replacement lighting to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services will be required
with all costs payable by the applicant.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 15
(iv) Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the
building without any portion of the service connection
above grade within the road right-of-way.
(v) Provision of protected bike lanes on Cambie Street
adjacent to the site including any transition areas
adjacent the site to connect existing and new curb
alignments. These improvements will generally include
the following:
a. New concrete curb and gutter.
b. Raised protected bike lane.
c. New concrete sidewalk.
d. New curb ramps.
e. Improved street lighting to LED standards and
additional pedestrian scale lighting, including
adjustment to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed street improvements.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements
are subject to completion and adoption of the Cambie
Corridor Public Realm Plan.
(vi) Provision of a minimum 2.13 m (7 ft.) wide CIP light
broom finish concrete sidewalk with saw cut joints on
Cambie Street adjacent the site.
(vii) Removal of the existing driveway crossing on Cambie
Street and construction of sidewalk, boulevard and curb
and gutter.
(viii) Upgrading of the existing pedestrian signal at the
intersection of Cambie Street and 45th Avenue to include
an audible to accessible pedestrian signal and LED
intersection lighting.
(ix) Provision of street trees where space permits.
4. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with the all the electrical plant, which
include but are not limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear,
pad mounted transformers, LPT and kiosks (including
non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property with
no reliance on public property for placement of these features.
There will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 16
overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any
alterations to the existing overhead/underground utility network
to accommodate this development will require approval by the
Utilities Management Branch.
Note to Applicant: Please ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
Housing
5. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement securing all residential units as
for-profit affordable rental housing units pursuant to Section
3.1A of the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law for the
longer of 60 years or the life of the building, subject to the
following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) A no stratification covenant;
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time; and
(iv) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into the City, by by-law, enacted
pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 17
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on this site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been issued to the City.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registered
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over other such liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning application and the Housing
Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 11, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6137 Cambie Street (Chinese
Presbyterian Church)”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare
the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing
Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property owner(s) and their
mortgagee(s) prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by this
report.
C. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning application, the following
consequential amending by-laws, generally as set out in Appendix C of the
Policy Report dated July 11, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6137 Cambie Street
(Chinese Presbyterian Church)”, be approved:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 18
a. Repeal CD-1 (12) By-law No. 3907 and By-law No. 5258,
b. Amend CD-1 (388) By-law No. 8016 and CD-1 (391) By-law No. 8044, and
c. A by-law to revise CD-1 (12) by-law provisions;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment, at the time of enactment of the new CD-1 By-law for 6137 Cambie
Street, the preceding consequential by-law amendments.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(a) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and the expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(b) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(c) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02205)
6. REZONING: False Creek Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law Amendments
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to bring forward the zoning
changes, consequential amendments, and accompanying development
policies and guidelines to manage future development as laid out in the
False Creek Flats Area Plan. The proposed provisions include a new rezoning
policy for the False Creek Flats, a new FC-2 District Schedule, amendments
to the I-2, I-3, IC-3, and MC-1 and MC-2 District Schedules, and amendments
to the Regional Context Statement Official Development Plan.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 19
Council also had before it the following for consideration:
• Memorandum dated September 14, 2017, from the Acting Assistant Director of
Planning, Vancouver Division, recommending an amendment to Appendix B of the
Draft By-law – Zoning and Development, to clarify the language with regard to
discretionary height in the new I-3 District Schedule, as follows:
THAT subsection 4.3.2 under Height in Appendix B, I-3 District Schedule, of the
Draft By-law - Zoning and Development, be amended as follows:
“4.3.2 In sub-area B, the The Director of Planning or the Development Permit
Board, as the case may be, may permit an increase in the maximum
height of a building to a height not exceeding 30.5 m with respect to
any development provided that consideration is given to:
(a) the intent of this Schedule, all applicable policies and guidelines
adopted by Council and the relationship of the development with
nearby residential districts;
(b) the submission of any advisory group, property owner or tenant;
and
(c) the effect of building height, bulk and siting on daylight access
and visual privacy of developments in nearby residential
districts. Daylight access can be adequately maintained if there
is no shadow impact at
10 a.m., noon and 2 p.m. on September 21 and March 21. Visual
privacy can be achieved by separating building facades by
24.4 m.”; and
• Memorandum dated September 15, 2017, from the Acting Assistant Director of
Planning, Vancouver Division, which provided Council with additional information
prepared by Coriolis Consulting Corporation, used in establishing the Amenity Share
Contribution rates for the Bonus Density districts within the False Creek Flats.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 4 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 28 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 20
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in opposition or expressed concerns related to various aspects of the
application:
Dak Molnar
Anne McMullin
Tom Edstrand
George Rammell
Grace Mackenzie
Rochelle Davidson
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:14 pm.
Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff and Jay Wollenberg, Coriolis Consulting Corp.,
provided closing comments.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT discussion and decision on Item 6 be referred to the next Regular Council
meeting on October 3, 2017, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
8. TEXT AMENDMENT: Introducing Character Home Retention Incentives and New
Housing Choices in RS Zones (Single-family) – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to introduce optional
incentives for the retention of character homes and to add new housing
choices into all RS (single-family) district schedules. The incentives include
the addition of conditional approval uses in conjunction with retention of a
character house, additional floor area, and general relaxation provisions.
Added uses include infill dwelling and multiple conversion dwelling, which
could be of rental or strata-titled tenure.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 21
Council also had before it a memorandum dated September 7, 2017, from the Assistant
Director of Urban Design, advising Council of a correction to an omission in the Policy Report
dated July 14, 2017, entitled “Introducing Character Home Retention Incentives and New
Housing Choices in RS Zones (Single-family) – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law”, and bringing forward the following additional recommendation
regarding the inclusion of strata-title provisions for character home conversions and infill
homes in RS zones within the “Strata Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones” Guidelines:
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward for Council adoption, at the time of enactment of the amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law, related amendments to the Strata Title Policies
for RS, RT and RM Zones, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
memorandum dated September 7, 2017, entitled “Character Home Retention
Incentives in RS Zones: Revision to “Strata Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones”
Guidelines”.
In addition, the memorandum set out minor changes to the Guidelines for Additions, Infill and
Multiple Conversion Dwelling in Association with the Retention of Character House in an RS
Zone to add diagrams and additional language for clarification purposes.
The Summary and Recommendation for this item had been prepared to reflect the changes
outlined in the memorandum.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 22 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 99 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 4 pieces of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
On September 19 and 21, 2017, the following spoke in support of the application:
Bryn Davidson
Jake Fry
Jens von Bergmann
Nicolas Petrie

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 22
Robert McNut
Pelar Davidson
Mark Battersby
Doug Cooper
Elizabeth Murphy
Jim Bussey, Formwekrs Architectural
On September 19 and 21, 2017, the following spoke in opposition or expressed concerns
related to various aspects of the application:
Marion Jamieson
Dr. Brutton
Mary Ann Cummings
Caroline Adderson
Susan Walker
Joan Bunn
Leslie Leader
John Wang
Penny Noble
Sai Wah Mak
Anthony Chu
Robert Friesen
Mike Chu
Wesley Li
Rochelle Davidson
* * * * *
On September 19, 2017, Council recessed at 10:02 pm and reconvened on
September 21, 2017, at 6:07 pm, to continue hearing speakers on Item 8.
* * * * *
On September 21, 2017, the speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:39 pm.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT discussion and decision on Item 8 be referred to the next Regular Council
meeting on October 3, 2017, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 23
9. REZONING: Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention Incentives in the
Mount Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities – Proposed Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to increase opportunities for
housing choice and provide additional incentives for the retention of
character houses. If approved, the proposed changes would amend the RT-5,
RT-5A, RT-5N and RT-5AN Districts Schedule; rezone certain areas from
RT-4, RT-4N, RT-5A, RT-5AN, RS-1, RS-4 and RS-7, all to RT-5/5N; and
amend the RT-6 District Schedule.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Council also had before it the following for consideration:
• Memorandum dated September 7, 2017, from the Acting Assistant Director, Midtown
Division, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which summarized changes to the
proposed by-laws and Guidelines, and noted the posted by-laws and Summary and
Recommendation for this item had been prepared to reflect the changes outlined in
the memorandum.
• Memorandum dated September 18, 2017, from the Acting Assistant Director, Midtown
Division, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which set out a revised
Recommendation A for the Summary and Recommendation, to address correspondence
received since referral, and to correct errors and omissions, including proposed
amendments to the Draft By-law – Zoning and Development, as follows:
A. THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law in
order to:
(i) Amend the RT-5, RT-5A, RT-5N and RT-5AN Districts Schedule
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
July 13, 2017, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice and Character
Retention Incentives in the Mount Pleasant and Grandview-
Woodland Communities – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law”, but subject to the revisions proposed
after referral to public hearing as outlined in the memorandum
dated September 7, 2017, except that:
a. In section 2, amend the definition of under-utilized lots
to include the date of enactment and to exclude lots on
the Vancouver Heritage Register;
b. Amend the RT-5 District Schedule of the Draft
By-law – Zoning and Development as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 24
a. In section 4.17.1, include “One-Family Dwelling”
and “One-Family Dwelling with Secondary Suite”;
b. In section 4.4.4, strike “or the Development
Permit Board, as the case may be,”;
c. The “and” following the semicolon at the end of
sections 4.7.1(b), 4.7.1(c)(i) and 4.7.2(a) is
changed to an “or”;
d. In section 4.7.2, strike “an increase to the” and
replace with “a”;
e. In sections 5.2 and 5.3 strike “Development
Permit Board or the” and “, as the case may be,”.
c. Amend the RT-6 District Schedule of the Draft
By-law – Zoning and Development as follows:
a. In section 4.4.4, strike “or the Development
Permit Board, as the case may be,”;
b. The “and” following the semicolon at the end of
sections 4.7.1(b) and 4.7.2(a) is changed to an
“or”;
(iii) Rezone those areas shown outlined in bold on Schedule A of
Appendix A of the same report from RT-4, RT-4N, RT-5A,
RT-5AN, RS-1, RS-4 and RS-7, all to RT-5 and RT-5N; and
(iv) Amend the RT-6 District Schedule generally as set out in
Appendix A of the same report, but subject to the revisions
proposed after referral to public hearing as outlined in the
memorandum dated September 7, 2017;
in order to increase opportunities for housing choice and provide additional
incentives for the retention of character houses, be approved.
• Memorandum dated September 20, 2017, from the Acting Assistant Director, Midtown
Division, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which set out proposed
replacements to two Schedule A maps included in the Draft By-law – Zoning and
Development, contained in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 13, 2017,
entitled “Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention incentives in the Mount
Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning
and Development By-law”, and proposed a further recommendation bringing forward
the corrected maps, as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 25
THAT the draft by-law bringing forward Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law Regarding the RT-5 and RT-6 District Schedules be
amended as follows:
(i) on Map 3 of 5 for the area identified to be rezoned from RS-1 to
RT-5, remove two blocks on the south side of East 8th Avenue; and
(ii) on Map 3 of 4 for the area identified to be rezoned from RT-4 to RT-5,
remove the six blocks along East 1st Avenue, on the north and south
sides.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented the application and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 15 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 28 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Reilly Wood, Director, Abundant Housing Vancouver
Bel Dadwal
Turguy Tugali
Sam Sharma
Nicholas Petrie
Stuart Smith
The following spoke in opposition or expressed concerns regarding various aspects related to
the application:
Dana Cromie
Celia Brauer
Jason Skladan
Gordon Rumohr
Jaydene Cormier
Stephen Bohus

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 26
Charles Miller
Robert Chester
Michael Kluckner
Elizabeth Murphy
Kevin Grzybowski
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:31 pm.
* * * * *
At 10:12 pm, during the hearing of speakers on Item 9, it was
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be extended to finish hearing from speakers and close receipt of
public comments.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQURIED MAJORITY
* * * * *
REFERRAL MOVED by Mayor Robertson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT discussion and decision on Item 9 be referred to the Regular Council meeting on
Tuesday, October 3, 2017, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
At 10:33 pm, Mayor Robertson declared a conflict of interest on Item 7 as he resides in a
strata building that is potentially affected by this text amendment. He left the Council
Chamber and Acting Mayor Louie assumed the Chair.
* * * * *

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 27
7. TEXT AMENDMENT: Heritage Density Bank Update and Zoning Amendments to
Support Heritage Conservation
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law and the Downtown Official
Development Plan to support heritage conservation, in zoning districts
where density transfers are currently permitted through development
permits (Downtown, West End, and Central Broadway), by allowing
increases to the permitted floor area up to a maximum of 10 per cent to be
available through amenity shares for heritage conservation.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions as set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public
Hearing agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 3 pieces of correspondence in support of the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
A. THAT the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575,
generally as outlined in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 13, 2017,
entitled “Heritage Density Bank Update and Zoning Amendments to Support
Heritage Conservation”, to support heritage conservation by amending the
C-3A, C-5, C-5A, C-6, RM-5, RM-5A, RM-5B, RM-5C, RM-5D Zoning District
Schedules to allow increases to the permitted floor area up to a maximum of
10 per cent to be available through amenity shares for heritage conservation,
be approved.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, September 19 and 21, 2017 28
B. THAT the application to amend the Downtown Official Development Plan
generally as outlined in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated July 13, 2017,
entitled “Heritage Density Bank Update and Zoning Amendments to Support
Heritage Conservation”, to support heritage conservation to allow increases to
the permitted floor area up to a maximum of 10 per cent to be available
through amenity shares for heritage conservation, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02213)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
(Mayor Robertson absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:37 pm.
* * * * *