REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JULY 26, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was
held on Wednesday, July 26, 2017, at 9:39 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Andrea Reimer, Chair
Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*, Vice-Chair
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Kerry Jang (Leave of Absence)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Maria Castro, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged that we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tseil-Waututh First Nations.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT items 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 10 be adopted on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 2
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the order of the agenda be varied to consider Item 11 after Item 1.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02150)
For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
AGENDA ITEMS
1. Presentation - Housing Vancouver Update – Part II – Addressing Vancouver’s Lower
Income and Homeless Residents
The General Manager of Community Services, Director of Housing Policy and Projects and
Director, Homelessness Services, presented on this matter and, along with the City Manager,
Director/Chief Executive Officer of Vancouver Affordable Housing Agency, General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and Housing Policy staff, responded to questions.
11. Recommendation for the 2017 Contingency Budget for the Overdose Crisis
July 14, 2017
At the Regular Council meeting on July 25, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred this matter
to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 26, 2017, to
receive a presentation and hear from speakers.
Social Policy and Projects Division staff presented on this matter and, along with the General
Manager of Community Services and City Manager, responded to questions.
Dr. Patricia Daly, Chief Medical Health Officer, Vancouver Coastal Health, Miranda Compton,
Regional Director, Prevention, Vancouver Coastal Health, and Dr. Mark Tyndall, Executive
Medical Director, BC Centre for Disease Control and Deputy Provincial Health Officer, spoke in
support of the recommendation and acknowledged staff for their continued collaborative
efforts on these initiatives. Dr. Daly, Ms. Compton and Dr. Tyndall also responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 11:54 am, it was MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 3
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at12:08 pm and reconvened at 1:02 pm.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from thirteen speakers in support of the grants and who also spoke on
the urgency to address the drug-overdose crisis.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve 16 grants totalling $601,800 to non-profit organizations to
mitigate the effects of the overdose crisis, as listed in Appendix A. Source of Funds:
2017 Contingency Budget for the Opioid Crisis.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion be struck and replaced with the following:
“THAT the Mayor write a letter on behalf of Council to the Premier and the
Minister of Mental Health and Addiction Services and request immediate
funding in the amount of at least $601,800 to the City of Vancouver, to be
allocated to non-profit organizations to mitigate the effects of the overdose
crisis, as listed in Appendix A.”
amended
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 3:02 pm and reconvened at 3:11 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the amendment be amended by adding the following before the words “THAT the
Mayor”:
“THAT Council approve 16 grants totalling $601,800 to non-profit organizations
to mitigate the effects of the overdose crisis, as listed in Appendix A. Source of
Funds: 2017 Contingency Budget for the Opioid Crisis;
FURTHER”; and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 4
FURTHER THAT the following be deleted after the word “Vancouver”:
“, to be allocated to non-profit organizations to mitigate the effects of the
overdose crisis, as listed in Appendix A”
carried
The amendment to the amendment having CARRIED (Vote No. 02151), the amendment as
amended was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02152).
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Vote No. 02153).
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve 16 grants totalling $601,800 to non-profit organizations to
mitigate the effects of the overdose crisis, as listed in Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated July 14, 2017, entitled “Recommendation for the 2017
Contingency Budget for the Overdose Crisis”. Source of Funds: 2017 Contingency
Budget for the Opioid Crisis;
FURTHER THAT the Mayor write a letter on behalf of Council to the Premier and the
Minister of Mental Health and Addictions and request immediate funding in the amount
of at least $601,800 to the City of Vancouver.
2. New Leases for Boys and Girls Clubs, 395 East 6th Avenue and
2875 St. George Street
May 30, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and execute
two separate leases (the “Leases”) with the Boys and Girls Clubs of South Coast BC
(the “Society”), a non-profit organization, at a nominal rent for two City-owned
properties (together the “Properties”):
1) the Kivan Club, situated at 2875 St. George Street and legally described as:
PID: 013-378-236
Lot G Block 129 District Lot 264A Plan 2797;
PID 013-378-244
Lot 2 (Reference Plan 1415) Of Lot E Block 129 District Lot 264A Plan 2797;
PID: 015-064-557
Lot A (Reference Plan 847) of Lot 7 Block 132 District Lot 264A
Plans 923 and 1771;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 5
PID: 015-064-565
Lot B (Reference Plan 1617) of Lot 7 Block 132 District Lot 264A
Plans 923 and 1771;
PID: 015-064-573
Lot 7, Except Portions in Reference Plans 847 and 1617, Block 132 District Lot
264A Plans 923 and 1771; and
2) the Kimount Club, situated at 395 East 6th Avenue and legally described as:
PID: 011-126-191
Lot E Block 27 District Lot 200A Plan 5540;
PID: 011-126-213
Lot F Block 27 District Lot 200A Plan 5540; and
on the following terms and conditions:
Term: Ten (10) years, commencing August 1, 2017, with one option to renew for an
additional ten (10) years to a total term of twenty (20) years.
Early
Termination:
In case of redevelopment opportunities for the Properties, both Leases are to
include a clause allowing either party to terminate for convenience by
providing the other party with one hundred and twenty (120) days’ written
notice. Both parties to acknowledge that it is preferable not to select a
termination date during the school year (September to June).
Rent: The Total Rent is to be ten dollars ($10) each term for Kimount and ten dollars
($10) each term for Kivan, payable at the beginning of each term and each
renewal.
Use: The Properties are to be used for programming for youth, children and families,
and for offices of the Society, meeting rooms, special events and mixed uses.
Service Level Agreement (SLA): The City will provide a medium level of facility
maintenance support, which represents lifecycle replacement of main building
systems.
Other Terms
and Conditions:
The Leases are to be based on the City’s Precedent Lease For Non-Profit
Entities, drawn to the satisfaction of the Director of Real Estate Services,
Director of Facilities Planning and Development and the Director of Social
Policy and Projects, it being noted that no legal right or obligation is created
and none shall arise until the Leases are fully executed by both parties.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 6
As the rent for the Properties will be below the applicable market rate and includes
rent-in-lieu of property taxes, the recommendation constitutes a grant valued at
approximately $1,840,000 for Kimount and $4,900,000 for Kivan for each of the initial
ten year terms and requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all Council members,
per Vancouver Charter S. 206(1).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02167)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
3. Local Government By-Election - 2017
July 13, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council appoint the City Clerk as the Chief Election Officer for the
conduct of a by-election to fill a vacancy on Vancouver City Council arising
from the resignation of a Councillor.
B. THAT, on behalf of Vancouver City Council, the City Clerk notify the Minister of
Community, Sport, and Cultural Development, of the by-election as required by
Section 10(4) of the Vancouver Charter.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02168)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
4. Vancouver City-wide Development Cost Levy Update (2017-2026)
July 13, 2017
City-wide and Regional Planning staff and Craig Binning, Hemson Consulting Ltd, presented on
this matter and, along with the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability,
General Manager, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, Deputy Director of Planning,
Financial Planning and Analysis staff, Parks staff, and the City Manager, responded to
questions.
The Committee heard from two speakers in opposition to the recommendations.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:10 pm and reconvened at 5:54 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 7
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle the following for the Vancouver (City-wide)
Development Cost Levy (DCL) as shown in Appendix A of the Administrative
Report dated July 13, 2017, entitled “Vancouver City-wide Development Cost
Levy Update (2017-2026)”:
(a) Adjust DCL rates to contribute towards projected growth costs
recovered from new development using a phased approach, with 50% of
the rate increase effective September 30, 2017, and the remainder
effective September 30, 2018. The amended rate for
September 30, 2017, is as follows:
i. Higher Density Residential (above 1.5 FSR): From $13.91/square
foot ($149.73/square metre) to $15.62/square foot
($168.13/square metre).
ii. Lower Density Residential (at or below 1.2 FSR): From
$3.23/square foot ($34.77/square metre) to $3.63/square foot
($39.07/square metre).
iii. Add new DCL rate categories for:
1. Medium Density Residential (above 1.2 FSR to 1.5 FSR) to
be applied at a rate of $8.66/square foot ($93.22/square
metre).
2. Mixed Employment (Light Industrial) to be applied at a
rate of $10.44/square foot ($112.38/square metre).
With new DCL rates and categories to be effective September 30, 2017.
(b) Not adjust DCL rates for Industrial and Commercial rate categories.
(c) Approve reduced DCL rates at a rate of $10/building permit for the
following uses in the City-wide DCL and the Area Specific DCL:
• Artist studio (Class A and B)
• Community centre/neighbourhood house
• Library
• Public authority use (limited to Firehall and Police Station)
• Social service centre
With new reduced rates to be effective September 30, 2017.
B. THAT Council approve allocating DCL revenues among DCL project categories,
generally in the same proportion as projected growth costs:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 8
• Replacement Housing 36%
• Transportation 25%
• Park 18%
• Childcare 13%
• Utilities 8%;
FURTHER THAT staff make the allocation percentages effective upon Council
approval of the Administrative Report dated July 13, 2017, entitled “Vancouver
City-wide Development Cost Levy Update (2017-2026)”; and
FURTHER THAT staff confirm and update as appropriate such allocations as part
of the 2019-2022 Capital Plan and financial strategy.
C. THAT Council approve the expansion of the Vancouver (City-wide) Development
Cost Levy (DCL) District to include the areas covered by the Downtown South
DCL District, with such expansion to be accompanied by amending the following
by-laws which govern DCLs:
(a) the Vancouver DCL By-law No. 9755 to be amended as follows:
(i) amend Schedule A - Part 1 by removing the Downtown South
Development Cost Levy Area, and
(b) the Area Specific DCL By-law No. 9418 to be amended as follows:
(i) amend all rates applicable to Downtown South to reduce them to
$0/square foot, including nominal rates.
D. THAT Vancouver (City-wide) DCL as well as uses eligible for reduced DCL rates
be reviewed and updated as appropriate every 4 years to align with the City’s
4-year Capital Plan cycle.
E. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward amendments
to the Vancouver DCL By-law No. 9755 and the Area Specific DCL By-law
No. 9418.
carried
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as F at the end:
F. THAT Council consult with the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation
to consider any changes in allocating DCL project categories prior to the
2019-2022 Capital Plan and financial strategy.
LOST (Vote No. 02154)
(Councillors Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and Mayor Robertson opposed)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 9
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on the components of the motion.
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
A. THAT Council approve in principle the following for the Vancouver (City-wide)
Development Cost Levy (DCL) as shown in Appendix A of the Administrative
Report dated July 13, 2017, entitled “Vancouver City-wide Development Cost
Levy Update (2017-2026)”:
(a) Adjust DCL rates to contribute towards projected growth costs
recovered from new development using a phased approach, with 50% of
the rate increase effective September 30, 2017, and the remainder
effective September 30, 2018. The amended rate for
September 30, 2017, is as follows:
i. Higher Density Residential (above 1.5 FSR): From $13.91/square
foot ($149.73/square metre) to $15.62/square foot
($168.13/square metre).
ii. Lower Density Residential (at or below 1.2 FSR): From
$3.23/square foot ($34.77/square metre) to $3.63/square foot
($39.07/square metre).
iii. Add new DCL rate categories for:
1. Medium Density Residential (above 1.2 FSR to 1.5 FSR) to
be applied at a rate of $8.66/square foot ($93.22/square
metre).
2. Mixed Employment (Light Industrial) to be applied at a
rate of $10.44/square foot ($112.38/square metre).
With new DCL rates and categories to be effective September 30, 2017.
(b) Not adjust DCL rates for Industrial and Commercial rate categories.
(c) Approve reduced DCL rates at a rate of $10/building permit for the
following uses in the City-wide DCL and the Area Specific DCL:
• Artist studio (Class A and B)
• Community centre/neighbourhood house
• Library
• Public authority use (limited to Firehall and Police Station)
• Social service centre
With new reduced rates to be effective September 30, 2017.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02155)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and De Genova opposed)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 10
B. THAT Council approve allocating DCL revenues among DCL project categories,
generally in the same proportion as projected growth costs:
• Replacement Housing 36%
• Transportation 25%
• Park 18%
• Childcare 13%
• Utilities 8%;
FURTHER THAT staff make the allocation percentages effective upon Council
approval of the Administrative Report dated July 13, 2017, entitled “Vancouver
City-wide Development Cost Levy Update (2017-2026)”; and
FURTHER THAT staff confirm and update as appropriate such allocations as part
of the 2019-2022 Capital Plan and financial strategy.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02156)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Carr and De Genova opposed)
C. THAT Council approve the expansion of the Vancouver (City-wide) Development
Cost Levy (DCL) District to include the areas covered by the Downtown South
DCL District, with such expansion to be accompanied by amending the following
by-laws which govern DCLs:
(a) the Vancouver DCL By-law No. 9755 to be amended as follows:
(i) amend Schedule A - Part 1 by removing the Downtown South
Development Cost Levy Area, and
(b) the Area Specific DCL By-law No. 9418 to be amended as follows:
(i) amend all rates applicable to Downtown South to reduce them to
$0/square foot, including nominal rates.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02157)
D. THAT Vancouver (City-wide) DCL as well as uses eligible for reduced DCL rates
be reviewed and updated as appropriate every 4 years to align with the City’s
4-year Capital Plan cycle.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02158)
E. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward amendments
to the Vancouver DCL By-law No. 9755 and the Area Specific DCL By-law
No. 9418.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02159)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and De Genova opposed)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 11
5. 2017 Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
Targets
July 11, 2017
City-Wide and Regional Planning staff and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the 2017 inflationary rate adjustments for Community Amenity
Contribution (CAC) Targets with new target rates to be effective September 30, 2017,
as shown in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled
“2017 Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Community Amenity Contribution (CAC)
Targets”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02160)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and De Genova opposed)
6. Contract Award for Construction of Oakridge Trunk Replacement Project – Sewer
Separation
June 26, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with Pedre
Contractors Ltd., for Construction of Oakridge Trunk Replacement Project –
Sewer Separation, for a term of approximately six (6) months, with an
estimated contract value of $2,898,000.00, plus applicable taxes over the
approximate six (6) month term, to be funded through the capital 2017 Sewer
Main Reconstruction budget;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and
General Manager of the Engineering Services Department be authorized to
execute on behalf of the City the contract contemplated above.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A
above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in the above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02169)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 12
7. Contract Award for Construction of Vancouver West Sewer Separation - Package 1
June 26, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with Pedre
Contractors Ltd., for Construction of Vancouver West Sewer Separation -
Package 1, for a term of approximately five (5) months, with an estimated
contract value of $4,407,561.28, plus applicable taxes over the approximate
five (5) month term, with $4,231,295 funded from the approved Sewer Main
Reconstruction capital budget and $176,266 from the approved Local Roads
capital budget;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and
General Manager of the Engineering Services Department be authorized to
execute on behalf of the City the contract contemplated above.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A
above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in the above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02170)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
8. Contract Award for engaging a Contractor for the South False Creek Seawall
Upgrades
July 6, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to enter into a contract with
Jacob Bros. Construction Inc., for upgrades to the South False Creek Seawall,
for a term of approximately five months with an estimated contract value of
$3,078,800.00 plus applicable taxes over the term, to be funded through the
approved Seaside Greenway – South False Creek project budget.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, the Chief Purchasing Official and the
General Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of
the City, the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A
and B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized
signatories of the City as set out above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02171)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 13
9. Engineering Snow Event Response and Readiness: Response to 2016-2017 Snow
Season and Readiness Improvements for Future Snow Events
June 27, 2017
The General Manager of Engineering Services responded to questions.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council direct staff to amend the City’s Snow Clearing Plan to include
proposed readiness improvements for communication, procedures, equipment
and by-law enforcement to increase the service level to respond to future snow
events.
B. THAT Council approve the varying of borrowing authority of $1,286,000 in the
2015-2018 Capital Plan from “Public Safety and Public Works/Street and Bridge
Infrastructure” to “Community and Civic Facilities/Civic Facilities and
Infrastructure”.
The variation of debt financing requires two-thirds affirmative votes of all
Council members, per Vancouver Charter S. 245(3).
C. THAT Council, subject to approval of B above, approve a multi-year capital
project budget for Snow Readiness Capital Improvements of $4,302,000; source
of funding to be:
• $2,516,000 for vehicle and equipment snow readiness additions and
upgrades, funded from the Plant and Equipment Reserve, to be added
to the 2015-2018 Capital Plan (Equipment and Technology);
• $1,286,000 for service yard upgrades and salt storage expansion, funded
from the 2015-2018 Capital Plan (Civic Facilities); and
• $500,000 for traffic monitoring CCTV cameras on major road networks,
funded from TransLink OMR Reserve (Non-Pavement Rehabilitation), to
be added to the 2015-2018 Capital Plan (Equipment and Technology).
Expenditures for 2017 for the vehicle and equipment snow readiness additions
and upgrades to be managed within the current overall Annual Capital
Expenditure Budget for 2015-2018 Vehicle and Equipment Replacement and
Additions Program. Expenditures for 2017 for the service yard upgrades and
installation of traffic monitoring CCTV camera to be transferred from the
Annual Capital Expenditure Budget for Landfill Phase 3 Southeast Closure.
D. THAT Council approve an increase of $840,000 to the 2018 annual snow clearing
operating budget from $780,000 to $1,620,000. Funding for 2018 will be
brought forward as part of the 2018 operating budget process as either
increased expenditure budget funded by additional revenues, or offset by a
reduction in expenditure budget in another area.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 14
E. THAT Council direct staff to bring back for review and approval amendments to
the Street and Traffic By-law No.2849 to improve enforcement and to add a
provision to fine drivers that are on the road in snow conditions without winter
tires.
carried
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on the components of the motion.
A. THAT Council direct staff to amend the City’s Snow Clearing Plan to include
proposed readiness improvements for communication, procedures, equipment
and by-law enforcement to increase the service level to respond to future snow
events.
B. THAT Council approve the varying of borrowing authority of $1,286,000 in the
2015-2018 Capital Plan from “Public Safety and Public Works/Street and Bridge
Infrastructure” to “Community and Civic Facilities/Civic Facilities and
Infrastructure”.
The variation of debt financing requires two-thirds affirmative votes of all
Council members, per Vancouver Charter S. 245(3).
C. THAT Council, subject to approval of B above, approve a multi-year capital
project budget for Snow Readiness Capital Improvements of $4,302,000; source
of funding to be:
• $2,516,000 for vehicle and equipment snow readiness additions and
upgrades, funded from the Plant and Equipment Reserve, to be added
to the 2015-2018 Capital Plan (Equipment and Technology);
• $1,286,000 for service yard upgrades and salt storage expansion, funded
from the 2015-2018 Capital Plan (Civic Facilities); and
• $500,000 for traffic monitoring CCTV cameras on major road networks,
funded from TransLink OMR Reserve (Non-Pavement Rehabilitation), to
be added to the 2015-2018 Capital Plan (Equipment and Technology).
Expenditures for 2017 for the vehicle and equipment snow readiness additions
and upgrades to be managed within the current overall Annual Capital
Expenditure Budget for 2015-2018 Vehicle and Equipment Replacement and
Additions Program. Expenditures for 2017 for the service yard upgrades and
installation of traffic monitoring CCTV camera to be transferred from the
Annual Capital Expenditure Budget for Landfill Phase 3 Southeast Closure.
D. THAT Council approve an increase of $840,000 to the 2018 annual snow clearing
operating budget from $780,000 to $1,620,000. Funding for 2018 will be
brought forward as part of the 2018 operating budget process as either
increased expenditure budget funded by additional revenues, or offset by a
reduction in expenditure budget in another area.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 15
E. THAT Council direct staff to bring back for review and approval amendments to
the Street and Traffic By-law No.2849 to improve enforcement and to add a
provision to fine drivers that are on the road in snow conditions without winter
tires.
CARRIED (Vote Nos. 02161 and 02162)
(Councillor De Genova opposed to E)
10. 9100 Stanley Park Drive - Stanley Park Lawn Bowling Club
Liquor Primary Club Licence and Outdoor Patio Application
Liquor Establishment Class 7 – Private Club
May 25, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council, having considered the opinion of local area residents and business
operators as determined by neighbourhood notification, site sign, noise impacts and
relevant Council policy as outlined in the Administrative Report dated May 25, 2017,
entitled “9100 Stanley Park Drive - Stanley Park Lawn Bowling Club - Liquor Primary
Club Licence and Outdoor Patio Application - Liquor Establishment Class 7 – Private
Club”, endorse the request by Stanley Park Lawn Bowling Club for a 78 person Liquor
Primary Club licence (Liquor Establishment Class 7 – Private Club) and a 72 person
outdoor patio located at 9100 Stanley Park Drive subject to:
i. A maximum total interior capacity of 78 persons and 72 person outdoor
patio;
ii. Hours of operation, limited to 11 am to 10 pm, seven days a week;
iii. The outdoor patio ceasing all liquor service and vacated by 10 pm, nightly;
iv. No music or entertainment permitted on the patio;
v. A Time-limited Development Permit;
vi. An acoustic report to be submitted certifying that the establishment meets
Noise Control By-law requirements;
vii. Food service to be provided while the establishment is operating as well as
on the patio when open; and
viii. Signing a Good Neighbour Agreement with the City prior to business licence
issuance.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02173)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 8:06 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JULY 26, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
July 26, 2017, at 8:18 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the
recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Geoff Meggs
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova (Sick Leave)
Councillor Kerry Jang (Leave of Absence)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Maria Castro, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
July 26, 2017
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Presentation - Housing Vancouver Update – Part II – Addressing Vancouver’s Lower
Income and Homeless Residents
2. New Leases for Boys and Girls Clubs, 395 East 6th Avenue and 2875 St. George Street
3. Local Government By-Election – 2017
4. Vancouver City-wide Development Cost Levy Update (2017-2026)
5. 2017 Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) Targets
6. Contract Award for Construction of Oakridge Trunk Replacement Project – Sewer
Separation
7. Contract Award for Construction of Vancouver West Sewer Separation - Package 1

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 2
8. Contract Award for engaging a Contractor for the South False Creek Seawall Upgrades
9. Engineering Snow Event Response and Readiness: Response to 2016-2017 Snow Season
and Readiness Improvements for Future Snow Events
10. 9100 Stanley Park Drive - Stanley Park Lawn Bowling Club
Liquor Primary Club Licence and Outdoor Patio Application
Liquor Establishment Class 7 – Private Club
11. Recommendation for the 2017 Contingency Budget for the Overdose Crisis
Items 1 to 11
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities at its meeting of July 26, 2017, as contained in items 1 to 11,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
ITEMS 2, 9 AND 11 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the order of the agenda be varied to consider Urgent Business 1 and 2 before
Unfinished Business 1.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 – Amendment to the General Regulations
to Delegate Discretionary Relaxation Powers to Expedite the Delivery of Low Cost
Housing for Persons Receiving Assistance
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make application to bring forward a by-law to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law, generally as outlined in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 24, 2017,
entitled “Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 – Amendment to the General

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 3
Regulations to Delegate Discretionary Relaxation Powers to Expedite the Delivery of
Low Cost Housing for Persons Receiving Assistance”, in order to delegate to the
Director of Planning or the Development Permit Board the discretionary power to relax
the provisions of the Zoning and Development By-law for proposed developments
where a minimum of 70% of all dwelling units in the development provide for low cost
housing for persons receiving assistance, and that the application be referred to a
Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02163)
2. Replacement of Council Member on Metro Vancouver Regional District Board
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT Council appoint Councillor Ball as the alternate for Councillors Reimer and Jang
on the Metro Vancouver Regional District Board.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02164)
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Councillor Affleck advised he had reviewed the proceedings of the Public Hearing in relation
to Unfinished Business 1, and he would therefore be eligible to participate in the discussion
and vote.
1. REZONING: 969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street
On July 18 and 25, 2017, Council heard from speakers on the above-noted matter and, on
July 25, 2017, closed the receipt of public comments and referred discussion and decision to
the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities meeting on July 26, 2017, as Unfinished Business.
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, Engineering Services and the Director,
Real Estate Services, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by Bing Thom Architects Inc., on behalf of The First
Baptist Church of Vancouver and Westbank Project Corp., to amend CD-1 (445)
District By-law No. 9204 for 969 Burrard Street [The West ½ of Lot 16, the East
½ of Lot 16 and Lots 17 and 18, all of Block 7, District Lot 185, Plan 92; PIDs

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 4
015-749-967, 015-749-975, 025-114-042 and 025-114-051 respectively] and
1019-1045 Nelson Street [the West ½ of Lot 15, the East ½ of Lot 15, Lot 14
Except the East 30 Feet, the East 30 Feet of Lot 14 and Lot 13, all of Block 7,
District Lot 185, Plan 92; PIDs 015-749-941, 015-749-959, 015-749-932,
012-338-311 and 015-749-924 respectively], to increase the permitted floor
space ratio (FSR) from 2.87 FSR to 11.27 FSR and the building height from
75.6 m (248 ft.) to 169.5 m (556 ft.) to permit the development of a 57-storey
residential tower containing 331 market strata units, seismic upgrade,
conservation and restoration (including interiors) of the First Baptist Church
building, expanded church program space and a seven-storey residential
building containing 61 social housing units, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 13, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street”, be approved, subject to the
following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Bing Thom Architects Inc., and
stamped “Received City Planning Department, March 18, 2016”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to provide a 6.6 m (21.5 ft.) setback from
the west property line including a public passage and
landscaping.
Note to Applicant: Intent is to provide more space for residential
units located along this interior property line, to provide a
pedestrian passage for all users, and to help break up the scale
of development facing toward Nelson Street and the lane, while
still providing interior connections requested to serve the
building program. The west elevation should be developed to a
similar standard as the street facing sides in terms of
architectural interest.
2. Design development to improve the visual transparency and
reduce the apparent scale of the podium element, seen by
pedestrians on Nelson Street and along the lane.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 5
Note to Applicant: Intent is to reduce the visual mass of the
podium, and to reflect the general intent of the West End
Community Plan to improve the appeal of lanes as secondary
walking routes. This can be accomplished by providing
substantial openings at the lower levels that permit filtered
views and the passage of natural light through the podium, in
combination with a more varied approach to the massing and
wall treatments of the lane side façade. Public passage is not
required through the podium element.
3. Design development to provide a more varied massing and
landscaped character for the wall of the new podium facing the
lane, including a range of building setbacks with planting on
grade, and with other green and landscaped elements.
4. Design development to the residential mid-rise to reduce its
height to no more than 18.3 m (60 ft.), as measured below.
Note to Applicant: Intent is to provide more openness between
buildings to improve access to natural light and other benefits.
The required dimension may be taken from the southwest corner
to the roof surface to allow development of the rooftop as an
intensive green roof for common access by all residents of the
mid-rise. The provision of 22.3 m (73.1 ft.) height limit in the
CD-1 By-law is measured to the base surface, as is standard in
the Zoning and Development By-law.
5. Design development as required to mitigate wind effects in the
open tower corridors, on the podium rooftops, and at the
pedestrian areas at grade, as recommended by registered
professionals with relevant expertise.
6. Provide more substantial replacement trees to offset the
removal of the conifers along Nelson Street.
Note to Applicant: See also Landscape conditions.
7. Design development to maintain the family housing percentage
in the tower substantially at 59% while allowing some flexibility
to change at the Development Permit stage. Family units design
in the tower and rental building shall meet the High-Density
Housing for Families with Children Guidelines.
8. Provide high quality and durable exterior finishes consistent with
the rezoning application.
Note to Applicant: Intent is to maintain the proposed quality in
all aspects, including but not limited to appearance, durability,

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 6
and performance, by retaining the use and extent of the specific
finishes shown such as pre-cast and architecturally finished
concrete panels. Material choices including visible areas such as
wall returns and soffits should be noted on the elevation
drawings.
9. Design development to mitigate privacy and overlook toward
nearby residential units.
Note to Applicant: This can be accomplished by further
development of landscape drawings, enlarged sections, and
other drawings that illustrate the specific built features
proposed to balance the amenity of future and existing
residents.
10. Design development to tree planters in the market residential
building to provide optimized growing conditions.
Note to Applicant: This can be accomplished by providing an
overhead clearance of approximately 24 ft. and by relocating
some planted area from the north side to create larger soil
volumes for the south-facing planters located at every third floor
from Level 4 and up.
11. Provide a preliminary design package indicating the commercial
signage approach for any facilities on the site.
Note to Applicant: Intent is to show the intended quality of
materials and integration with the architectural approach in
general. A separate permit application will be required under
the Sign By-law.
12. Note on the drawings of the lighting and acoustic mitigation
features or specifications that will be installed to mitigate the
effect of equipment and lights to new and existing residences.
Note to Applicant: Features should include full cut-off lights or
shrouds to confine building light to the property, quieting
measures on gates, and acoustic shrouds on equipment.
13. Consider supplying a bird friendly strategy for the design of the
building and landscape with the development permit application.
Note to Applicant: Strategy should identify any particular risks
with regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose
design features or to reduce these risks. For more information,
see the guidelines at
http://former.vancouver.ca/commsvcs/guidelines/B021.pdf.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 7
14. Retain the unique architectural design and resulting low-
efficiency floor layout for the proposed building.
Note to Applicant: These were key factors in the pro forma
analysis and resolution of the community benefits offering. As
such, the City has acknowledged several premium cost
components in the pro forma, including the significantly reduced
floor layout efficiency rate at 69%.
Furthermore, the reduced floor layout efficiency rate at 69%
reduces the potential sellable area which has a relationship to
the amount of Community Amenity Contribution that may be
negotiated based on development economics of the site.
Therefore, if the applicant chooses to make alterations to the
building design, including exterior finishes (as proposed in the
application), which result in the removal of such premium cost
items or an increase in the sellable area, Council approval must
be sought through an application to change the form of
development under Schedule 1, Section 16 of the Zoning and
Development Fee By-law. Any implications this would have for
the Community Amenity Contribution would be reported to
Council at that time.
Landscape
15. Design development to the grade oriented open space plan to
increase pedestrian amenity through the provision of
replacement tree canopy, permanent site furniture, wayfinding
measures, creative hardscaping, artistic elements and/or public
art (where applicable);
Note to Applicant: Further work may be requested at the
development permit stage.
16. Design development to the sustainable site strategy and
landscape plan for the private property to include the following:
(i) an increase in the overall amount of pedestrian amenity
space and tree canopy planting at the plaza level (Note:
this will require a reduction or deletion of space
dedicated to water features and stairs);
(ii) a robust tree canopy replacement scheme at the plaza
level and a row of trees at the northern edge (Note: new
trees to be medium to large shade species with a medium
to large leaf size);

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 8
(iii) modifications to the slab to ensure that all trees are
planted level with the plaza surface and with a minimum
growing medium below slab containing soil volume
targets of 16 cubic metres. For each tree, growing
medium should be no less than 1 m deep and no less than
2 m radially, measured from the trunk. Soil cells,
structural soils and contiguous planting troughs should be
explored;
(iv) provision of trees in the common outdoor hallways of the
strata use building at a regularly spaced interval of about
1 tree per 3 floors and located in large planters with
maximized soil volumes (as permitted in the CD-1 bylaw
for the site) of no less than 6.25 square metres;
(v) meet the requirement for 25% green roof area for the
rental building as a combination of adequately sized
urban agriculture planters and other intensive green roof
features;
(vi) improvement of the lane experience through additional
greening and pedestrian safety measures (Note: except at
point of access/egress, consider an evergreen hedge,
such as Yew species, and climbing plants established on a
support structure to cover blank walls. Where space is
limited, portions of the building may need to be further
setback to satisfy the requirement).
17. Design development of the rainwater management strategy and
related grey water/mechanical systems to be scaled and
integrated with full infiltration from hard and soft surfaces
within the site, to the greatest extent practicable;
Note to Applicant: refer to Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large
Developments for applicable requirements. The applicant is also
encouraged to reference the Integrated Rainwater Management
Plan (IRMP), Volume II, Best Management Practices, supported by
Council in April 2016. At the development permit stage, further
design development may be requested.
18. Site utilities and vents to be located on private property and
integrated discreetly into the building, avoiding landscaped and
common areas;
19. Design development to reduce potable water consumption in the
irrigation systems by using drought tolerant species, rainwater
harvesting methods and efficient irrigation technology for all
planted areas;

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 9
Note to Applicant: Potable water may be needed for urban
agriculture areas and patios. Individual hose bibs to be provided
for all patios of 100 sq. ft. or greater in size, to encourage patio
gardening.
20. At time of development permit application, the following:
(i) Provide a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and
hard landscape treatment;
Note to Applicant: the Landscape Plan should include a
planting plan listing common and botanical name, size
and quantity of all existing/ proposed plant material.
Plant material should be clearly illustrated on the
Landscape Plan and keyed to the Plant List. Illustrate and
clarify all outdoor surface/paving materials, site
furniture, bicycle racks, lighting, trash receptacles, hose
bibs, signs, retaining wall treatment, parking vents,
at-grade utilities, and public realm (building edge to the
curb, street trees, lamp posts, fire hydrants, sidewalk
treatment);
(ii) Provide large scale sections [typical] through landscaped
areas, including the ground oriented interface, the
slab-patio-planter relationship, street trees, the lane
interface, common areas and upper storey planters;
Note to Applicant: the sections should include the planter
materials, tree canopy, tree stem, outline of the root
ball, voiding, built up membrane and dimensions.
(iii) Provide spot elevations to all outdoor areas (including
top/ bottom walls), including offsite context spot
elevations in proximity (public sidewalks, inner
boulevards and lanes);
(iv) Provide adequate soil volumes and depths for planting on
slabs and in planters;
Note to Applicant: refer to the rezoning conditions. To
ensure the long term viability of planting in
non-continuous growing medium, soil depths must meet
or exceed BCLNA planting standards. At the edges, new
slabs should angle down to provide deeper soils. Within
the site at the plaza level, the slab must be lowered
below to avoid the necessity for above grade planter
walls that would impede pedestrian flow.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 10
(v) Provide universal design principles in the outdoor spaces;
Note to Applicant: special consideration should be given
to the ground plane, including paving materials, grade
changes, benches near entrances on site and at
reasonable intervals for public use along shared
circulation routes.
(vi) Provide a “Tree Removal and Protection Plan” in
coordination with arboricultural services, including the
assessment of existing trees and retention feasibility;
Note to Applicant: given the size and complexity of the
site, provide a large scale tree plan that is separate from
the landscape plan. The plan should clearly illustrate all
trees to be removed and/or retained, where applicable,
including any tree protection barriers and important
construction management directives drawn out of the
arborist report(s). Tree replacements are likely best
located on the proposed phased landscape plans.
(vii) Provide a partial irrigation plan to demonstrate efficient
irrigation system for all common outdoor planters
(existing and new) and individual hose bibs to be provided
for all patios of 9.3 sq. m (100 sq. ft.) or greater in size.
Note to Applicant: Specification notes and irrigation
symbols to should be added to the drawing;
(viii) Provide all necessary infrastructure to support urban
agriculture, including hose bibs, tool storage, work tables
and seating;
21. Incorporate the principles of the City of Vancouver, Bird-Friendly
Design Guidelines for the protection, enhancement and creation
of bird habitat and to reduce potential threats to birds in the
City.
Note to Applicant: This can be demonstrated on the landscape
plan, plant list and a written rationale. Refer to:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntB.pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntC.pdf

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 11
Access to Nature
22. Include a dedicated and irrigated dog relief area, consisting of a
pea gravel area and hose in order to accommodate the needs of
building dog owners and their dogs. Approval of the dog relief
area design and location are contingent upon approval from the
General Manager of the Park Board.
Note to Applicant: This measure is to mitigate negative impacts
of dogs on public parks and public sidewalks.
Sustainability
23. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings, including a minimum
of LEED® Gold rating, with 1 point for water efficiency and
stormwater management and a 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with registration and
application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must submitted
as part of the Development Permit that articulates which credits
the applicant will be pursuing and how their building application,
as submitted, incorporates strategies, features or technologies
that will help achieve these credits. The strategy, along with the
LEED checklist must be incorporated into the drawing
submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited Professional or
Administrator must confirm that the proposed strategy aligns
with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy. Proof of
registration from the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
Note to Applicant: For conditions related to meeting the Low
Carbon requirements of the Rezoning Policy for Sustainable
Large Developments, refer to the Neighbourhood Energy Utility
conditions below. For conditions related to meeting other
requirements of the Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large
Developments, refer to Engineering, Landscape and Social Policy
conditions.
24. The applicant commits the proposed residential tower to
demonstrate leadership in sustainable design as required by the
General Policy for Higher Buildings, through the following
measures:

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 12
(i) Energy/GHG Savings: the proposed tower shall achieve
the greenhouse gas reductions equivalent to a 45%
reduction in energy use from ASHRAE-90.1 using Appendix
G of the Policy Report dated June 13, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson
Street”, (68% GHG reduction compared to BAU) through
measures such as energy efficient design and/or
connection to a low-carbon energy system. For more on
the definition and requirements of a low carbon energy
system, refer to the NEU conditions below.
(ii) High-Performance Envelope: provide a high-performance
thermal envelope that meets or exceeds the performance
level described in the rezoning application, which
included:
a. an effective R(IP)-value of 6 or better for the
opaque enclosure when accounting for thermal
bridging;
b. high-performance double pane windows with
thermal breaks at exterior wall conditions; and
c. a moderate glazing ratio.
(iii) Air-tightness Testing: testing the airtightness of at least
10% of suites under the LEED v2009 ETS protocol.
(iv) Heat Recovery Ventilation: make use of ventilation heat
recovery for ventilation air provided to all suites, and
with direct ventilation provided to each space as
interpreted by LEED.
(v) Thermal Sub-Metering and Billing: provide suite-level
thermal sub-metering, such that the building’s total
thermal energy use costs can be allocated to the suites
based on their monitored usage in the strata bylaws.
(vi) Smart Thermostats: provide smart thermostats in all
suites, such as the Nest or similar.
(vii) Master Cut-Out Switch: provide a single master cut-out
switch for each suite, capable of turning off the majority
of the lighting loads within the suite.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 13
(viii) Post-Occupancy Energy Model Update: the applicant
commits to update the energy model for the building
post-occupancy, using the actual building energy use, and
use this to provide support for ongoing energy
performance of the building.
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
25. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings. Consultation
with the social housing operators and Park Board staff with
experience of the more specific CPTED risks in this area is
recommended, and should be included the response to this
condition.
Heritage
26. Design development to keep the existing entrance facing Nelson
Street.
Note to Applicant: Application proposed to re-orient existing
entry steps from facing Nelson Street to face Burrard Street. It is
recommended that this approach be reviewed as to retain the
steps’ historic orientation to Nelson Street.
27. Provide fully updated, final version of the Conservation Plan
prior to submitting Development Permit application. Include
conservation strategies for implementation of proposed seismic
upgrades.
28. Provide fully developed seismic upgrade plans prior to applying
for the Development Permit.
29. Provide an Interpretive Plan to preserve the memory of the site
and structures that stood on this location prior to
redevelopment.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 14
Note to Applicant: As four other existing structures (some with
heritage merit) are planned to be removed from the site, it is
requested that an Interpretive Plan be developed to preserve the
memory of the site and structures that stood on this location
prior to redevelopment and to provide information about the
conservation work on the heritage church. The Interpretive Plan
content (panels, plaques, audio/video material) is to be
appropriately incorporated within the architectural or
landscaped areas where they should be made accessible to the
public, preferably accessed from Nelson Street. The provision of
the Interpretative Plan is required at submission of a
Development Permit application.
Engineering
30. Delete all bollards and other non-standard treatments shown on
public property.
31. Delete proposed landscaping in the lane. Match or retain existing
lane treatments.
32. Show standard broom-finished saw-cut sidewalks and tree
surrounds adjacent the site in keeping with the area treatments
of broom-finished saw-cut sidewalks on Nelson Street and with
the ceremonial treatments on Burrard Street (Georgia Street
Public Realm design on Burrard Street).
Note to Applicant: A separate application to the General
Manager of Engineering Services is required and the landscape
treatments on public property are to be finalized prior–to
development permit issuance.
Note to Applicant: Engineering Services does not support the use
of pavers adjacent the site.
33. Clarify if bicycle racks are proposed for public property. If so, a
separate application to the General Manager of Engineering
Services is required.
Note to Applicant: Class B bicycle parking (bike racks) supplied
on public property cannot be counted towards the on-site by-law
requirement that would apply to this project. The on-street
bicycle racks as shown on the site plan should parallel the curb
and use standard City of Vancouver bicycle racks.
34. Delete the portions of parking barrier gate shown in the lane on
page A207 (Note: this encroachment does not appear on
subsequent page A208).

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 15
35. Delete what appears to be added curbing in the lane. The site
has existing standard roll over curb for the length of the site, no
additional curbing is required.
36. Delete door swings shown over the property line into the lane
(A207).
37. Delete reference to “curb roll up” on the Nelson Street frontage,
there will be no vehicular access to the sidewalks from Nelson
Street.
38. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Please provide written
confirmation that a waste hauler can access and pick up from
the location shown.
Note to Applicant: Pick up operations should not rely on bins
being stored on the street or lane for pick-up, bins are to be
returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.
39. Provide additional waste management/recycling and
compostable space for the church’s kitchen, café and retail
space. The Zero Waste Planning report does not appear to
address these components of the development.
40. Clarify what the white space is shown along the Burrard Street
frontage shown just beyond the property line on drawing
A211 — is this existing or proposed, at or above grade.
41. Clarify the property line location on landscape plan (Conceptual
Render - Nelson courtyard, page 94) to ensure pool structure
does not encroach onto public property.
42. Show City of Vancouver building grades on the site plan.
Additional design elevations are required adjacent to all entries
and on both sides of entries greater than 1.5 m (5 ft.) in width,
clearly indicating that the entries meet the building grades.
43. Remove benches and waste receptacles from public property, if
desired please provide on-site.
44. Provide the following measures as part of the Green Mobility
Plan:
(i) two rapid charging stations for electric vehicles;
(ii) a bike hub/repair station;
(iii) a minimum of 15 Class A bike spaces for the church and
childcare;

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 16
(iv) a minimum of 12 Class A bike spaces and bikes for the
“private” bike share;
(v) three spaces and vehicles for the “private” carshare; and
(vi) the required parking for the church, rental housing and
daycare uses
45. Provide revised landscape plans at 1”=1/8”.
Note to Applicant: Please place the following notes on the
landscape plans.
(i) All plant material within the same continuous planting
area which is located on street right-of-way within 10 m,
measured from the corner, of an intersection, pedestrian
crossing, entrance to a driveway or other conflict areas
where sightlines need to be maintained for safety
reasons, shall not exceed a mature height of 0.6 m,
measured from the sidewalk.
(ii) All plant material within the street right-of-way which
are located outside of the areas described in the bullet
above shall not exceed 1m in height, measured from the
sidewalk. Exceptions will be approved on a case-by-case
basis by the City of Vancouver’s Street Activities Branch.
(iii) Plants shall be planted in such a way as to not encroach
on the sidewalk, street, lane, and/or bike lane.
46. Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing access to
the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
47. Provide a Rain Water Management Plan. The plan is to confirm
that site run-off is not to exceed the run-off condition that exists
prior to redevelopment of the site and is to propose additional
management strategies that will further reduce site run-off.
48. Comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The following items are required to meet
provisions of the parking by-law and the parking and loading
design supplement:
(i) Provide 1/8 scale drawings for the parking and loading
levels.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 17
Note to Applicant: Dimension and number all stalls,
dimension all column encroachments and maneuvering
aisle widths.
(ii) Modify column placement to comply with the
requirements of the Engineering Parking and Loading
Design Supplement.
Note to Applicant: A column 0.6 m (2 ft.) in length must
be set back 0.6 m (2 ft.) from either the opening to or
the end of the parking space. A column 0.9 m (3 ft.) long
may be set back 0.3 m (1 ft.). Provide a minimum 0.3 m
(1 ft.) setback from the drive aisle for all columns.
(iii) Provide additional parking stall width for stalls adjacent
to walls or stalls with columns set back more than 1.2 m
(4 ft.) from the end of the stall.
(iv) Provide improved plans showing the required
maneuvering to access the three angled stalls along
gridline F on P1 to P6.
Note to Applicant: Consider perpendicular stalls as angled
stalls may require excessive maneuvering.
(v) Provide design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay,
within the parking area and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: This is to calculate the slope and cross
fall.
(vi) Provide an improved plan showing the loading access
route from the Class B spaces to the church.
(vii) Provide two-way traffic flow in the main ramp – the
current ramp design does not allow for opposing vehicles
to pass. Two-way flow is required from level L0 to P3.
Note to Applicant: Corner cuts are required at the top
and bottom of ramps to provide adequate radii for
continuous two-way traffic flow where 200 or more
vehicles are being served. A standard 6 m (20 ft.) ramp
width would require a 2.7 m x 2.7 m (9 ft. x 9 ft.) corner
cut. Reduced corner cuts would be acceptable for wider
ramps upon review. Provide turning swaths showing
two-way flow on the ramp down to P3.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 18
(viii) Provide an improved plan noting the daycare drop-off and
staff parking spaces on drawing A207.
Note to Applicant: Show the daycare spaces on the
Daycare Circulation Diagram drawing A602 on drawing
A207 and note the daycare spaces in the legend.
(ix) Provide details regarding daycare drop-off procedure as
parents will require security access for the drop-off
spaces in the underground parking spaces and elevator
access to the daycare on the Level 4.
(x) Provide minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp,
security gates, and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m (7.5 ft.) of
vertical clearance is required for access and maneuvering
to all disability spaces. 3.8 m (12.5 ft.) of vertical
clearance is required for Class B loading spaces and
maneuvering.
(xi) All Class A bicycle spaces must be located on the P1
parking level, mezzanine level, or at grade.
Note to Applicant: Engineering does not support the three
Class A bicycle spaces shown on floors 6-55 (150 spaces
total).
(xii) Provide an improved plan showing the access route from
the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be “stairs free” and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
49. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City and a City-recognized NES Utility
Provider, shall be provided prior to the issuance of any
development permit, to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services.
50. All new buildings in the development shall connect to a
City-recognized low-carbon Neighbourhood Energy System and
adhere to the following requirements:

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 19
(i) The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system
shall be designed to be easily connectable and
compatible with Neighbourhood Energy to supply all
heating and domestic hot water requirements. Design
provisions related to Neighbourhood Energy compatibility
must be to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
(ii) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air
shall be provided by hydronic systems without electric
resistance heat or distributed heat generating equipment
(including but not limited to gas fired make-up air
heaters, heat producing fireplaces, distributed heat
pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the General
Manager of Engineering Services;
(iii) Provide for 21 sq. m (226 sq. ft.) of adequate and
appropriate dedicated space to be utilized for an energy
transfer station connecting the building(s) to a
City-recognized Neighbourhood Energy System, as
outlined in the Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity
Standards Design Guidelines, at development permit;
(iv) Provide for up to 150 sq. m (1,615 sq. ft.) of suitably
located dedicated Neighbourhood Energy Room and
design provisions to accommodate a City-recognized NES,
as outlined in the Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity
Standards – Design Guidelines, to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services; and,
(v) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical
heating system at the building permit stage must be to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
Note to Applicant:
a. A Low Carbon Energy System means a thermal
energy generating, distribution, and delivery
system that incorporates low carbon energy
sources (such as sewage heat recovery, geo
exchange, surface water exchange, heat recovery,
air source heat pumps, solar thermal, biomass,
etc.) for space and domestic hot water heating,
and in some cases cooling, for one or multiple

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 20
buildings. The system may include conventional
heating and cooling sources (such as boilers,
chillers, cooling towers, etc.) to satisfy peaking
and back-up thermal energy requirements as
agreed to by the General Manager of Engineering.
b. The applicant shall refer to the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards – Design Guidelines
for general design requirements related to
Neighbourhood Energy compatibility at the
building scale. The applicant is also encouraged to
work closely with City staff during mechanical
design to ensure compatibility with a
neighbourhood-scale system. As a pre-condition to
building permit, a declaration signed by the
registered professional of record certifying that
the Neighbourhood Energy connectivity
requirements have been satisfied will be required.
51. If, at the time of development permit approval, it is determined
by the General Manager of Engineering Services that a
City-recognized low-carbon Neighbourhood Energy System has
not been secured, design of all new buildings in the development
shall adhere to the following requirements:
(i) Implement, as approved by the General Manager of
Engineering Services, a building-scale low-carbon energy
system or low-carbon energy supply strategy. The
proposed low-carbon approach must achieve a
greenhouse gas reduction equivalent to a 45% reduction
in energy use from ASHRAE-90.1 using Appendix G of the
Policy Report dated June 13, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson
Street”, (68% GHG reduction compared to BAU).
(ii) Any building-scale low-carbon energy system shall be
designed in such a way as to enable energy metering and
the monitoring of performance metrics during system
operation for the purpose of optimizing system
performance and preparing system performance reports.
The applicant shall refer to the Performance Monitoring
and Reporting Requirements for Low Carbon Energy
Systems for a summary of minimum requirements. The
applicant will be required to demonstrate compliance
with these requirements prior to issuance of building
permit.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 21
Social Policy
52. Provide a Sustainable Food System Plan to include a minimum of
three food systems assets as described in the Rezoning Policy for
Sustainable Large Developments, to the satisfaction of the
Director of Social Policy.
Note to Applicant: The application identifies food assets that can
count towards the required three food assets that must be
delivered as part of the development. The three identified food
assets are (1) edible landscaping, (2) community gardens, and (3)
community kitchen. The following comments outline ways to
strengthen the submission.
(i) Edible landscaping:
a. In order to enhance the edible landscaping
component applicant to specifically identify
number, location and species of edible
landscaping, and how edible landscaping can fit
into the broader landscaping design and features
of the site.
b. Consider plant design and species selection that
supports pollinators, as referenced in “Access to
Nature” section of the policy.
c. The Urban Agriculture Design Guidelines for the
Private Realm are applicable to this site. As such,
the Applicant should ensure that design and
stewardship requirements for edible landscaping
are met.
(ii) Community gardens:
a. Increase the number of community garden plots
on the rental building common roof space to
minimum of 30% of units in order to increase
opportunities for tenants of the building to take
part in food growing. Consider installing the
additional plots in the space currently designated
for “outdoor kitchen” create a stronger urban
agricultural presence on the common roof space.
b. Provide a Landscape Plan for the garden in
accordance with the Urban Agriculture Design
Guidelines for the Private Realm
(http://vancouver.ca/files/cov/urban-agriculture-

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 22
guidelines.pdf). Please note that this includes
hose bibs, a potting bench, tool storage area and
compost bins. Given the location of the garden
plots on a rooftop, sun and shading should be
considered.
c. In constructing raised-bed community garden
plots, ensure that Community Gardens
Accessibility Guidelines are met
(http://vancouver.ca/files/cov/Community-
Gardens-Accessibility-Guidelines-2011.pdf). Please
note that at least 5% of plots should be accessible
raised beds; 10-20% is ideal.
(iii) Community kitchen:
a. The rezoning package shows the presence of a
kitchen in the church. Applicant to further
describe how project intends to improve the
existing facility – explain what features will be
added and/or improved to that of the existing.
Childcare Facility
53. Design development of a licensable 37-space childcare facility
that meets the Childcare Design Guidelines (1993), to the
satisfaction of the Managing Director of Social Development and
Vancouver Coastal Health Community Care Facility Licensing.
Note to Applicant: Further design development required to
improve safety for children in pickup/drop-off areas, as well as
to ensure that outdoor play spaces are larger, have a more
functional layout, and generally meet the intent of the Childcare
Design Guidelines.
Housing Policy and Projects
54. Provide a completed Tenant Relocation Application Form which
includes a list outlining the name of each tenant, the number of
the tenant’s unit, the size of unit, the type of unit, and their
rent, as per Section 6.1(a) of the Tenant Relocation and
Protection Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted
at the time of development permit application.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 23
55. Provide a letter stating the property address and legal
description of the site, and providing the names and mailing
addresses of all tenants.
56. Provide a notarized declaration, prior to issuance of a
development permit which demonstrates that each tenant has
been given written notice of the intent to redevelop the
property; that indicates the number of units occupied on the
date of the notice; includes information on posting of notice
regarding the intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and
includes copies of a letter addressed to each tenant summarizing
the Tenant Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each
tenant.
57. Provide a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted prior
to issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the names of
tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for alternate
accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value given to
each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other compensation); and
includes a summary of all communication provided to the
tenants.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning and Development, the Managing
Director of Social Development, the General Manager of Engineering
Services, the Managing Director of Cultural Services, the Director of
Facility Design and Management and Approving Officer, as necessary,
and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lot 13, The East 30 Feet of Lot 14 and Lot 14,
Except The East 30 Feet, The East ½ of Lot 15, The West ½ of
Lot 15, The East ½ of Lot 16, The West ½ of Lot 16, Lot 17, and
Lot 18; all of Block 7, DL 185, Plan 92 to create a single parcel.
Note to Applicant: Covenant BX288747 restricts building on site
until the above noted lands have been consolidated. Upon
consolidation of the properties this covenant may be released.
Arrangements for release of this covenant at the appropriate
time are required.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 24
2. Confirmation that the existing disability access ramp that
encroaches onto Nelson Street is to be removed and, if so, make
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services for
release of Easement and Indemnity Agreement R23722 prior to
building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
3. Confirmation that the existing duct shaft in the lane is to be
removed and, if so, make arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services for release of Easement and Indemnity Agreement
BV472198 prior to building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
4. Provision of written confirmation from BC Hydro agreeing to the
removal of their infrastructure located within Statutory Right of
Way K10512 on Lot 15, and the subsequent release of the charge
from title.
Note to Applicant: The release is to occur prior to occupancy and
after Hydro’s works have been removed/relocated/abandoned.
The written confirmation from BC Hydro and commitment in
writing from the applicant will satisfactorily address this
condition.
5. Replacement or modification of the existing encroachment
agreement (registered under BA450628-30) to encompass only
those existing encroaching elements which are to remain at the
completion of the project.
Note to Applicant: Clarification and approval of any additional
elements that may encroach prior to DP issuance. Prior to
occupancy, arrangements are required to validate all
encroaching elements and to include them in any modification or
replacement agreement. A building location survey for the entire
development is required to facilitate these arrangements.
Provision of a letter of commitment prior to enactment and a
refundable deposit will be required prior to DP issuance to
address this condition.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 25
Note to Applicant: Regarding releases — prior to building
occupancy the applicant is to supply a written request to the
City, a fresh title search and a copy of the documents along with
executable discharge documents to affect the releases.
6. Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure
the provision, operation and maintenance of 2 Shared Vehicles
and the provision and maintenance of 2 Shared Vehicle Parking
Spaces for use exclusively by such Shared Vehicles, [with such
parking spaces to be in addition to the minimum parking spaces
required by the Parking By-law], on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the General Manager of Engineering Services and
the Director of Legal Services, including the following:
(i) Provide 2 Shared Vehicles to the development for a
minimum period of 3 years.
(ii) Enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicles.
(iii) Provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Spaces
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles.
(iv) Make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Spaces.
(v) Provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle.
(vi) Registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the
Director of Legal Services may require and including a
covenant under section 219 of the Land Title Act of
British Columbia, a statutory right of way, or other
instrument satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
securing these conditions.
(vii) Provision of a letter of commitment from a car share
company indicating their willingness to supply car share
vehicles on the site at building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: Shared vehicle spaces are required to
be a minimum width of 2.9 m (9.5 ft.).

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 26
7. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the demands
of the project. The current application lacks the details
to determine if water main upgrading is required. Please
supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demand as determined by the applicant’s
mechanical consultant to determine if water system
upgrading is required. Should upgrading be necessary
then arrangements to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of any
water system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of improved street lighting adjacent the site.
A study to determine the adequacy of the lighting for this
proposal is required and upgrading to LED lighting
including additional lamp standards where applicable is
required. Note: the study should be completed during the
development review with a draft lighting plan clearly
shown on the development permit plans.
(iii) Should the project trigger removal of any existing wood
poles in the lane that provide lane lighting then
replacement lighting will be required through provision of
new poles located on private property. A draft lighting
plan for the lane lighting will be required to be identified
on the approved development permit plans.
(iv) Provision of improved curb ramps and curb return at the
northwest corner of Burrard and Nelson streets.
(v) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
8. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted
transformers and kiosks (including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 27
located on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features. There will be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch. The applicant may be required to show details of how
the site will be provided with all services being underground.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
9. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
determine are necessary for connection to a City-recognized
low-carbon Neighbourhood Energy System (NES), if and when the
opportunity is available and in accordance with the City’s
Neighbourhood Energy Strategy and the West End Community
Plan, that may include but are not limited to agreements as
determined by the General Manager of Engineering Services
which:
(i) Require all new buildings in the development to connect
to a City-recognized low-carbon Neighbourhood Energy
System (NES).
(ii) Grant access to the mechanical system and thermal
energy system-related infrastructure within the
development for the purpose of enabling NES connection
and operation.
(iii) Grant use of and access to suitable space required for the
purposes of an energy transfer station as established in
the Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards Design
Guidelines, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
(iv) Grant use of and access to the Neighbourhood Energy
Room for the purposes of infrastructure and distribution
equipment to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
(v) If, at the time of development permit approval, it is
determined by the General Manager of Engineering
Services that a City-recognized low-carbon
Neighbourhood Energy System has not been secured,
require the project to implement, as approved by the
General Manager of Engineering Services, a building-scale
low-carbon energy system or low-carbon energy supply

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 28
strategy that must achieve a greenhouse gas reduction
equivalent to a 45% reduction in energy use from
ASHRAE-90.1 using Appendix G of the Policy Report dated
June 13, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 969 Burrard
Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street”, (68% GHG reduction
compared to BAU).
(vi) If, at the time of development permit approval, it is
determined by the General Manager of Engineering
Services that a City-recognized low-carbon
Neighbourhood Energy System has not been secured,
require the developer to undertake monitoring of the
development’s low carbon energy system and
performance that includes a reporting schedule
containing information and prepared in a form as
requested by the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
Note to Applicant:
a. Until a City-recognized NES utility provider has
been identified by the General Manager of
Engineering Services, the Owner will be prohibited
from entering into any third party energy supply
contract for thermal energy services, other than
conventional electricity and natural gas
connections, unless otherwise approved by the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
b. The Development will be required to connect to a
City-recognized low-carbon, if determined to be
available by the General Manager of Engineering
Services NES, prior to occupancy.
c. At the building permit stage, the applicant will be
required to submit final detailed drawings, signed
and sealed by a professional engineer where
necessary, for review by Engineering Services to
confirm final room dimensions and technical
information.
d. Design shall provide suitable space for the
installation of NES equipment with adequate
provisions for connection to outside NES
distribution piping and communications conduit.
District energy equipment may include, but is not
limited to; a steam to hot water converter station
sized for neighbourhood service provision, an

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 29
energy plant sized for neighbourhood service,
energy transfer stations (ETS), and/or boiler
equipment. At the building permit stage, the
applicant will be required to submit final detailed
drawings, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer where necessary, for review by
Engineering Services to confirm final room
dimensions and technical information.
Sustainability
10. The applicant will enter into an agreement with the City, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Director of Sustainability
and the Director of Legal Services, that requires the future
owner of the proposed residential tower to report energy use
data, on an aggregated basis, for the building as a whole and
certain common areas and building systems. Such an agreement
will further provide for the hiring of a qualified service provider
to assist the building owner for a minimum of three years in
collecting and submitting energy use data to the City.
Housing Policy and Projects
11. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement securing 61 social housing residential
units, for the longer of 60 years and the life of the building,
subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) A no separate-sales covenant.
(ii) A no stratification covenant.
(iii) That none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time.
(iv) That a minimum of 41 units (67%) are occupied by
households with incomes below the housing income limits
as set out in the current “Housing Income Limits (HILS)”
table published by the British Columbia Housing
Management Commission or equivalent publication, at a
rent which is no more than 30% of household income, and
meets all other applicable preconditions in order to
comply with the development cost levy exemption
provisions for social housing under the Vancouver
Charter.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 30
(v) Compliance with the City approved Tenant Relocation
Plan, including provision of a final Tenant Relocation
Report prior to issuance of the occupancy permit.
(vi) Such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a
Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by
by-law enacted pursuant to section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter.
Heritage
12. Amendment of the Heritage Designation Compensation Waiver to
confirm that The First Baptist Church of Vancouver has been fully
compensated through the rezoning and waives any further right
to compensation attributable to the 2005 heritage designation.
Note to Applicant: The waiver may form part of the Heritage
Restoration Covenant to be registered on title to the Lands.
13. Amend the existing Heritage Designation By-law 9158, as
required.
14. Enter into a Heritage Restoration Covenant for the First Baptist
Church (FBC) to be completed and fully registered in the Land
Title Office to the satisfaction of both the Director of Planning
and the Director of Legal Services to, among other things:
(i) Conserve and rehabilitate FBC in accordance with the
proposal, approved FBC Rehabilitation Plan dated
September 4, 2015 compiled by Bing Thom Architects
including the Conservation Plan dated March 2016
prepared by Don Luxton and Associates.
(ii) Seismically and structurally upgrade the FBC in
accordance with approved Seismic Review and Upgrade
Options Report by Glotman – Simpson, dated 2013 and
updated in 2014 and particular technical approach chosen
for the CAC costing purposes (Option 1A Report dated
November 14, 2016, indicating Vancouver upgrade Trigger
Model to upgrading the building to 100% of the current
Vancouver Building By-Law and related requirements, and
accompanied by The Haebler Group cost estimate, dated
November 16, 2016).

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 31
(iii) Secure protection of the FBC during construction with
supervision by a Heritage Consultant (heritage
conservation professional with professional expertise in
particular conservation techniques and programs) and
periodic status reporting on completion of the approved
conservation work, prepared by the Heritage Consultant.
(iv) Provide that any alteration, modification or deviation
from the approved heritage conservation program
(including changes to the approved seismic upgrade plan)
would need prior approval from the City.
(v) Provide, as required, that The First Baptist Church waives
any further right to compensation attributable to the
2005 heritage designation.
(vi) Secure the costs of carrying out the rehabilitation and
conservation work by an Equitable Charge.
(vii) Allow a heritage plaque to be placed on the FBC or the
subject property.
(viii) Require the owner to provide verification by a Structural
Engineer or other Designated Professional of completed
upgrade work to 100% VBBL of the current Vancouver
Building By-Law as part of the heritage restoration and
seismic upgrade works to the church.
(ix) Require the owner, at their cost, to retain an
independent quantity surveyor approved by the City, to
provide quantity survey cost reports to the City, including
interim reports as required and a final quantity survey
report (the “Final Report”) on completion of the heritage
restoration and seismic upgrades.
(x) Provide that heritage conservation and rehabilitation of
the FBC be fully completed and Occupancy Permit issued
for the FBC, prior to the issuance of any Occupancy
Permit for the tower.
In-kind Community Amenity Contribution (CAC): Heritage
Conservation
15. The owner is required to rehabilitate, restore and seismically
upgrade the FBC sanctuary, narthex and associated interior
space as set out in condition 15 and the required Heritage
Restoration Covenant at a total estimated cost of $21,700,000.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 32
16. In the event that the Additional Contingency is required in part
or in whole, an additional contingency of up to $4,300,000
(the “Additional Contingency”) for premium costs resulting from
unforeseen circumstances, the City will reimburse the owner for
costs incurred, subject to verification by a Structural Engineer or
other Designated Professional of completed upgrade works, and
receipt of the Final Report by the independent quantity surveyor
cost consultant.
In-kind Community Amenity Contribution (CAC): Affordable Housing
Credit
17. Affordable Housing Credit ($6,500,000) — A $6.5 million
allowance is allocated for 41 units in the rental building that will
be secured at housing income limits (HILs) rate, for the longer of
60 years or life of the building. As the City requires rental
replacement at market rents, this allowance reflects the value
difference between this base requirement and First Baptist
Church’s offer to secure 67% of the units at rents below the
HILs rental rates.
Community Amenity Contribution (CAC): Cash Payments
18. Pay to the City the cash component of the Community Amenity
Contribution of $63,105,225 which the applicant has offered to
the City and to be allocated as follows:
(i) $6,000,000 toward support of strategic City-wide public
benefits such as the City’s Housing and Homelessness
Strategy;
(ii) $4,300,000 towards the Additional Contingency related to
the Heritage Conservation; and
(iii) $52,805,225 to support delivery of the West End Public
Benefit Strategy.
19. Payment of the cash portion of the CAC is to be made as outlined
below, at no cost to the City, and on terms and conditions and in
a form satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services:
(i) 10% of the Net Cash Contribution ($6,310,523) must be
paid by bank draft, certified cheque or wire transfer prior
to enactment of the rezoning by-law.
(ii) The balance of $56,794,702 in cash must be paid on the
following milestones:

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 33
o 40% of the Net Cash Contribution ($25,242,090) must
be paid by bank draft, certified cheque or wire
transfer on the calendar date which is 1.5 years after
the rezoning enactment date, with interest accruing
at prime plus 3% (per Bank of Montreal daily prime
rates) from the date when such payment is due until
the date that such amount is fully paid;
o 50% of the Net Cash Contribution ($31,552,612) must
be paid by bank draft, certified cheque or wire
transfer on the earlier of:
 the developer achieving the first occupancy
permit for any portion of the tower development;
and
 the calendar date which is 4.5 years after the
rezoning enactment date, with interest accruing
at prime plus 3% (per Bank of Montreal daily prime
rates) from the date when such payment is due
until the date when such amount is fully paid. For
certainty, the issuance of any occupancy permit
will be subject to full payment of the Net Cash
Contribution to the City.
The deferral of $56,794,702 of the Cash Contributions will be
secured a corporate guarantee (the “City Security”) provided by
Westbank Holdings Ltd (the parent corporation which owns the
Westbank group of companies) and its principals, all to the
satisfaction of the City’s Director of Legal Services (subject to
due diligence on such corporation), or other security satisfactory
to the Director of Legal Services. The City will be entitled to
realize on the City Security if the required payments are not
made to the City in the amounts and at the times set out above.
The payments will also be secured with permit holds and
covenants pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title Act as
appropriate.
Public Art
20. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services, for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager (a checklist will
be provided).

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 34
Note to Applicant: Please contact 311 to be directed to the
Public Art Program Manager to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
21. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Protection
Branch (EPB).
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do
all things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter.
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Protection
and the Director of Legal Services in their discretion,
enter into a remediation agreement for the remediation
of the site and any contaminants which have migrated
from the site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Manager of Environmental Protection, City Engineer and
Director of Legal Services, including a Section 219
Covenant that there will be no occupancy of any buildings
or improvements on the site constructed pursuant to this
rezoning until a Certificate of Compliance satisfactory to
the City for the on-site and off-site contamination, issued
by the Ministry of Environment, has been provided to the
City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219
of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate
Land Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 26, 2017 35
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Noise Control By-law,
generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 13, 2017,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 969 Burrard Street and 1019-1045 Nelson Street”.
C. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
condition described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
June 13, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 969 Burrard Street and
1019-1045 Nelson Street”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law(s) for enactment prior to
enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be
required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the Managing
Director of Social Development.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City;
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02165)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 9:25 pm.