REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 25, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 25, 2017,
at 9:38 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Kerry Jang (Leave of Absence)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Janice MacKenzie, City Clerk
Laura Kazakoff, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
CONDOLENCES – TRACEY MORRISON AND JIM WONG CHU
Mayor Robertson acknowledged the recent loss of two community leaders – Tracey Morrison
and Jim Wong Chu.
He noted the many significant contributions each made to their respective communities, and
extended condolences on behalf of City Council to the families, friends and associates of
both.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the
Council considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests
of the city;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an
activity, work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of
the Council, could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they
were held in public
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – July 11, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of July 11, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Public Hearing – July 11, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of July 11, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 3
3. Regular Council (City Finance and Services) – July 12, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting of July 12, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Public Hearing – July 20, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of July 20, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Communications 1 and 2, Administrative Reports 1, 2 and 4, and
Policy Reports 1 and 4 to 9 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
The Council agreed to vary the order of the agenda in order to consider RR2 prior to RR1.
The items are minuted in numerical order, for ease of reference.
* * * * *
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Housing Vancouver Update
Gil Kelley, General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and Edna Cho,
Senior Housing Planner, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided a Housing
Vancouver update, including a review of interim targets and early actions, and noted part 2 of
the update would be presented the next day.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 4
Mr. Kelley and Ms. Cho, along with Kaye Krishna, General Manager of Development, Buildings
and Licensing, Kathleen Llewellyn-Thomas, General Manager of Community Services, and
Anita Molaro, Assistant Director - Urban Design, responded to questions.
2. Recommendation for the 2017 Contingency Budget for the Overdose Crisis
July 14, 2017
The Mayor noted that requests to speak to this item had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the presentation and related Administrative Report dated July 14, 2017, entitled
“Recommendation for the 2017 Contingency Budget for the Overdose Crisis” be
referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting to be
held on Wednesday, July 26, 2017, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 2141)
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
As it was previously decided to consider the Unfinished Business Item at 2 pm, Council agreed
to vary the order of the agenda to consider Administrative Report 3 as the next item of
business.
The items are minuted in numerical order, for ease of reference.
* * * * *
Following consideration of Administrative Report 3,
Council recessed at 12:05 pm, and reconvened at 2:17 pm.
* * * * *
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. REZONING: 500-650 West 57th Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)
At the Public Hearing on Thursday, July 20, 2017, Council concluded hearing from speakers,
closed the receipt of public comments, and referred discussion and decision on the above-
noted matter to the Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, July 25, 2017, as Unfinished
Business. Council further directed that the matter be considered beginning at 2 pm that day.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 5
Council had before it a Memorandum dated July 17, 2017, from the Assistant Director of
Planning – Vancouver South, which put forward changes to the “Notes to Applicant” for two of
the proposed Conditions of Approval of the Form of Development (Numbers 26 and 28)
included in the original Summary and Recommendations.
Council also had before it a Memorandum dated July 25, 2017, from the Assistant Director of
Planning – Vancouver South, which recommended an addition to Recommendation A, and
changes to one of the proposed Conditions of By-law Enactment (No. 24) included in the
original Summary and Recommendations related to the Therapy Pool.
Graham Winterbottom, Planner – Vancouver South, along with Bonnie Wilson, Vancouver
Coastal Health, Neal Peacocke, Senior Projects Engineer, and Katy Amon, Planner, Parks and
Recreation, provided responses to questions which had been received from Council members.
The motion below contains changes from the original Summary and Recommendations, as put
forward in the two Memorandums above, as well as an additional Note to Applicant related to
the Therapy Pool, all of which are shown below in bold italics:
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the application by IBI Group Inc. on behalf of Onni Pearson Dogwood
Holdings Corp., the registered owners, to rezone 500-650 West 57th Avenue
[Lots 1 to 5, all of Block 1004, District Lot 526, Plan 20607; PIDs: 002-395-355,
002-395-363, 002-395-380, 002-395-398 and 002-395-401 respectively] from
RT-2 (Two-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.75 to 2.83 FSR
and the height from 9.1 m (30 ft.) to 91.0 m (299 ft.) to permit a mixed-use
development including:
 approximately 2,700 residential units totalling 250,619 sq. m
(2,697,732 sq. ft.), including 361 turnkey social housing units and land
available to construct 179 social housing units;
 approximately 114 Pearson supportive units totalling 8,430 sq. m
(90,744 sq. ft.);
 12,196 sq. m (131,281 sq. ft.) of commercial space;
 19,835 sq. m (213,514 sq. ft.) of health related facilities including a
community health centre and complex residential care facility;
 a 69-space childcare;
 a new therapy pool;
 a new adult day centre;
 a 2.5-acre public park; and
 a 1.0-acre urban farm
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated June 13, 2017,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 500-650 West 57th Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)”, be
approved subject to the following conditions:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 6
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally prepared by IBI Group Architects, received
February 10, 2017 along with a design addendum received on
April 17, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed
scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Note: With regard to Parcel or Phasing numbers refer to Figure 4:
Proposed Development Phasing and with regard to Streets refer to
Figure 7: Transportation Network, both contained in the Policy Report
dated June 13, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 500-650 West 57th
Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)”.
Urban Design
1. Design development to ensure an appropriate massing transition
to the single-family neighborhoods at the site edges by providing
minimum upper level step backs of 10 ft. for residential
buildings.
Note to Applicant: This applies to buildings located along 59th
Avenue and Heather Street, as well as along the west portion of
57th Avenue across from Langara Gardens.
2. Design development to provide further articulation of the form
of residential buildings located at the site edges to ensure
compatibility with surrounding single-family neighbourhoods.
Note to Applicant: Buildings should be designed to express a
smaller incremental scale and avoid a long monolithic
appearance. Particular attention should be paid to buildings
exceeding 150 ft. in frontage. Modulation of the form is
anticipated, noting that shallow articulation of surface elements
is generally ineffective in achieving adequate variation.
3. Design development to ensure views to the courtyards and
central open spaces are maintained along the diagonal
pedestrian passage ways.
Note to Applicant: The spacing between buildings should ensure
visual porosity into the site at the pedestrian level, as well as
maintaining visual interest through the compression and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 7
expansion of the path width. It is recommended to provide a
clear dimension of approximately 30 ft. at the ‘compression
points’ at the residential quadrants (northwest and southwest)
and 40 ft. at the higher density, mixed-use quadrants (northeast
and southeast).
4. Design development to the 16-storey building at the northwest
corner of the Park to ensure the tower reads a ‘focal point’
within the overall design.
Note to Applicant: A high standard of architectural design is
expected, and a distinct form and character relative to the
overall context.
5. Design development to the ground floor elevations along
57th Avenue and Cambie Street to contribute to the street
character and provide an engaging interface for pedestrians.
Note to Applicant: Architectural quality and variety is expected
in the design of ground floor facades, including further
articulation. Long, unrelieved storefronts should be avoided.
6. Design development to provide a minimum 6 ft. setback
adjacent at-grade retail uses along 57th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: This is consistent with drawings and analysis
of the setbacks at 57th Avenue provided in response to advice
from the Urban Design Panel.
7. Provide common roof deck access and green roofs at low and
mid-rise roof tops and podiums to meet the expectations of the
Pearson Policy Statement with regards to ‘Visible Greenery’.
Note to Applicant: Green roofs should meet the expectations of
the Planning Administration Bulletin Roof-mounted Energy
Technologies and Green Roofs: Discretionary Height Increases.
An amenity room should be provided to support common roof
decks. Amenity rooms should be modest in size and setback from
the roof perimeter to reduce their visual prominence.
8. Design development to strengthen the commercial use at the
northwest corner of Pearson Plaza to improve the pedestrian
connection leading to 57th Avenue;
Note to Applicant: This can be accomplished by wrapping the
storefront glazing and plaza paving treatment around the corner
at the entry to the pedestrian link (High Street Commons) which
leads to retail and clinical uses at 57th Avenue. This is in

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 8
reference to the corner commercial unit, noting that a
commercial use along the full length of the pedestrian
connection is not anticipated.
9. Design development to ensure public pathways and sidewalks are
designed to meet Universal Design Standards, and to embody the
principles of a ‘Wellness Walkway’ comfortable for persons of all
ages and abilities.
Note to Applicant: The network of pedestrian pathways and
sidewalks located throughout the site and secured as public
right-of-ways are to be designed to contribute to community
health in general and, in particular, to respond to the special
needs of those with challenges posed by illness, disability or age.
There will be four primary user-groups in the Pearson Dogwood
site: patients and residents in the health care facilities,
residents, employees and volunteers in the health care facilities,
and employees and patrons of the commercial units. The site
design should promote equitable access for all user groups. Some
of the elements of the Wellness Walkway may include shade
trees for sun-sensitive patients, consistent curb letdowns, very
smooth wide sidewalks for wheelchairs, regularly-spaced seating,
way finding, and points of beauty.
Landscape
10. Design development to improve the residential interface along
Heather Street and at the corner of Cambie Street and 59th
Avenue (the southeast corner of the site) by providing additional
parkade-free growth zones, with more substantial tree buffers.
Note to Applicant: This will mitigate the neighbourhood loss of
the Poplar rows, currently providing a green buffer edge.
11. Design development to the commercial street edges and
pedestrian mews to activate and promote pedestrian movement,
providing opportunities for smaller, finer grain retail, merchant
displays, seating, etc. and ensuring interesting visual
connections into internal outdoor public spaces.
12. Design development to ensure that all open spaces (including
public/private courtyards, plazas, Park, walkways, mews)
generally follow the natural grade, with minimum need for
walls, ramps or stairs, with walls having a 2 ft. height maximum.
Note to Applicant: This will allow for visual and functional
continuity of the open spaces.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 9
13. Design development to extend Pearson Plaza design vocabulary
and nodal functionality around the corner to High Street
Commons.
Note to Applicant: The intent is to create a transition zone from
the Plaza to the more passive pedestrian mews and 57th Avenue.
14. Design development to provide additional usable spaces
(extensive green roofs) on additional rooftop terraces, planted
with additional trees (see Urban Design condition 7).
Note to Applicant: The intent is to provide spaces for resident
interaction, as well as increase the Urban Forest, by providing a
minimum of one tree per four residents, as a general rule.
15. Design development to ensure the public plazas and courtyards
have maximum functionality and enhanced community
experience. Dedicated planter beds should be flush with grade.
Raised beds may be considered if integrated with public realm
elements such as seating and urban agriculture
Note to Applicant: This will require the parkades to be deeper to
allow for head room. The effect can be achieved by sinking the
planters deeper into the parkade, while still allowing adequate
depth of soil.
16. Design development to ensure that existing relocated trees are
coordinated with parkade-free-growth zones.
17. Design development to further detail, define and develop the
Stormwater Management Strategies applicable to the landscape
plans, determining specific strategies that will be met for each
parcel.
Note to Applicant: This should be in compliance with Rezoning
Policy for Sustainable Large Developments, with references to
current Integrated Rainwater Management Plan and Green
Infrastructure standards.
18. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters over parkades, to exceed BCSLA
standard and to ensure long term viability of the landscape.
Note to Applicant: Underground parking slabs and retaining walls
may need to be altered to provide adequate depth and
continuous soil volumes.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 10
19. Provision of planting beds at the base of each retaining or
terraced wall, allowing the walls to be grounded into the
landscape.
20. Consideration to incorporate the principles of the City of
Vancouver, Bird Friendly Design Guidelines for the protection,
enhancement and creation of bird habitat and to reduce
potential threats to birds in the City.
Note to Applicant: Refer to the following documents:
a) Bird Friendly Design Guidelines – Explanatory Note
b) Bird Friendly Landscape Operational Guidelines
21. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen lane
edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a manner which
minimizes their impact on the architectural expression and the
project’s open space and public realm.
22. New proposed street trees should be coordinated and noted
“Final species, quantity and spacing to the approval of City
Engineer and Park Board”. Contact Eileen Curran (604-871-6131)
of Engineering Streets Division regarding street tree spacing and
quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587) of Park Board
regarding tree species.
23. At the time of development permit application, provide:
a) A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant
sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light
fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant
material should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should
be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
b) Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’ scale to
illustrate typical proposed landscape elements including
planters on structures, benches, fences, gates, arbours
and trellises, and other features. Planter section details
must confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is
deep enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees
well into the future.
c) Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to
public realm interface facing the street, confirming a
delineated private to public transition of spaces.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 11
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails,
fences and planters. The location of the underground
parking slab should be included in the section.
d) Confirmation of a high-efficiency automatic irrigation
system to be provided for all planters on parkade slab
and minimum of hose bibs to be provided for landscape
on grade.
e) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
Social Policy
24. Design development to ensure that the 69-space childcare is
licensable by Community Care Facilities Licensing and meets the
intent of the City's Childcare Design Guidelines and Childcare
Technical Guidelines. A minimum gross indoor area of 765 sq. m
(8,235 sq. ft.) and not less than 745 sq. m (8,020 sq. ft.) of
outdoor area, with adequate space for each program, is
required.
Housing
Social Housing
25. Ensure no less than 50% of the social housing units are suitable
for families with children as per the City’s Guidelines for High
Density Housing for Families with Children.
Note to Applicant: Applicant to work with City staff to agree the
final unit mix as part of each development permit application
and to determine if the inclusion of family childcare units within
the development is feasible.
26. Design and construct the social housing in line with the City’s
Housing, Design and Technical Guidelines, including the
requirement to deliver a minimum of 5% of units within each
social housing building or parcel as wheelchair accessible.
Note to applicant: Applicant to work with City staff to agree the
location and unit type for the accessible units. Applicant to
work with City and the Persons With Disabilities Advisory

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 12
Committee to explore potential and design requirements for
50% of the accessible social housing units to be suitable for
power wheelchairs.
Market Housing
27. Ensure that no less than 68% of the market housing units are
suitable for families with children, as per the City’s Guidelines
for High Density Housing for Families with Children, with no less
than 10% of all market units being three bedroom units, unless
otherwise agreed to by the Director of Planning.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35% of the dwelling units designed to
be suitable for families with children.
Note to Applicant: The City’s Guidelines for High Density Housing
for Families with Children is currently under review. Future
development permit applications will be expected to respond to
the latest version of the Guidelines at that time.
28. Ensure no less than 5% of the market housing units in each phase
are designed to be wheelchair accessible.
Note to applicant: Applicant to work with City and PwDAC to
explore potential and design requirements for 50% of the
accessible market units to be suitable for power
wheelchairs.
Pearson Replacement Units
29. Provide an updated resident relocation, phasing and demolition
plan prior to consideration of the Development Permit by
Development Permit Board or Director of Planning as applicable
for each phase, which demonstrates and documents that:
(i) The Pearson residents (or their representative) and the
Pearson Redevelopment Committee have been actively
engaged on the development proposals for the Pearson
replacement units, including both the proposed
replacement unit types within that phase and the models
of care;
(ii) The Pearson residents (or their representative) have
indicated their preferred unit type and that the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 13
development application for each phase responds to
those preferences;
(iii) Relocated Pearson residents will be provided with the
necessary support to facilitate moving at no cost to the
residents;
(iv) The current Pearson residents will be prioritised for
relocation into the replacement units and where a unit is
offered to a non-Pearson resident, evidence will be
provided to demonstrate that the needs of existing
Pearson tenants have been met; and
(v) Where required, appropriate interim accommodation has
been identified and agreed to the by the resident (or
their representative).
Note to Applicant: The above noted requirements which
relate to engagement with the Pearson residents must be
documented with a notarized declaration including copies
of all communication to residents.
30. Prior to issuance of occupancy permit, provide a final resident
relocation report that confirms the outcome of the resident
relocation plan and includes confirmation that individualised
support plans have been prepared and agreed to by each of the
residents (or their representative) moving in to that phase of the
development;
31. Prior to issuance of a Demolition Permit for all, or part of, the
existing George Pearson Centre, provide confirmation that
residents located within the area requiring demolition have been
appropriately relocated into alternate accommodation that has
been agreed to by the resident (or their representative).
Parks
32. The design, construction and programming of the park is to be
determined through a separate, Park Board led process.
Note to Applicant: The Park Board led process will confirm the
amenities to be included in the park. Elements such as a public
bike share (PBS) station and retention pond, shown in the
rezoning package, are not supported. Refer to the engineering
conditions for specific direction on the locations of PBS stations.
33. Park Board does not support the draining of private stormwater
on to park land, unless it has no effect on service level,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 14
ecological and arboricultural objectives that the park needs to
meet. In the case of this site, Park Board does not see
stormwater retention as workable given the mature tree
inventory and service levels that Park Board will need to provide.
Temporary detention in peak events might be possible,
contingent on final Park Board park design.
34. Design development of the site to ensure a public pathway on a
3 m statutory right-of-way (SRW) adjacent to the west edge of
the park, and on a 6 m statutory right-of-way (SRW) on the east
edge of the park site.
Note to Applicant: Existing mature trees will be considered in
the alignment of the pathways.
35. Park Board arborist approval required for tree protection plan
for all trees within the farm, park, and street trees. Plans to be
submitted for Park Board approval at each phase of
development.
36. Park Board arborist approval required for any impacts on, or
planned removal of, existing street trees.
37. Park Board arborist review of tree health and retention within
the park and farm sites will be required.
Sustainability
38. The development shall meet the Greenhouse Gas Intensity
(GHGI) performance limits by building type of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017), to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
and Director of Sustainability.
Performance Limits (i.e. shall not exceed)
Building Type GHGI (kgCO2/sq. m)
Residential Low-Rise (< 7 Storeys) 5
Residential High-Rise ( 7+ Storeys) 6
Office 3
Retail 3
Hotel 8
All Other Buildings EUI 35% below 90.1-2010
39. All buildings in the development shall meet the requirements of
the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), including all requirements for Near Zero
Emissions Buildings (i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 15
zero emissions standard approved by the Director of
Sustainability), or Low Emissions Green Buildings. The
requirements for Low Emissions Green Buildings are summarized
at http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. Because this is a large
phased development it is expected that the individual
development permits will meet the intent of the current Green
Buildings Policy. For more detail on the above requirements and
what must be submitted at each stage, refer to the bulletin
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings – Process and Requirements
(amended April 28, 2017 or later).
40. For buildings in development Phases 1 and 2, in lieu of the
requirements in Condition (b) 39, the applicant may choose to
meet the requirements of the preceding Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings (as amended up to January 14, 2016), including a
minimum of 63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for
water efficiency and stormwater management and a 22%
reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010,
along with registration and application for certification of the
project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
Engineering
41. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation
plan to minimize street use during excavation & construction
(i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing adjacent
private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection /

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 16
removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
42. Provision of garbage storage and pick-up space in the parking
level of buildings, no more than one storey below grade. Please
show containers and totters on plans for recycling and garbage
needs and refer to the Engineering garbage and recycling storage
facility design supplement for recommended dimensions and
quantities of bins.
Note to Applicant: Pick up operations should not rely on bins
being stored on the street or lane for pick up bins are to be
returned to storage areas immediately after emptying.
43. Provision of a detailed Solid Waste Diversion Strategy that
addresses waste diversion in all solid waste generating activities
within the complex.
Note to Applicant: The Strategy must include an implementation
plan identifying the space, infrastructure and an operational
approach to divert organics and recyclables from the waste
stream, and minimize the vehicle trips required for collection, to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services,
and prior to Development Permit issuance the completion of any
agreements required by this Strategy on terms and conditions
acceptable to the General Manager of Engineering Services and
the Director of Legal Services. The City encourages the Pearson
Dogwood team to provide a report on the plan within 18 months
of occupancy to track diversion at the site.
44. Provision of a Green Mobility and Clean Vehicles Strategy that
includes the requisite infrastructure where appropriate to
prioritize sustainable transportation modes including walking,
cycling, public transit, and provisions for low carbon vehicles
(e.g., electric vehicles), completed to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services, and prior to
Development Permit issuance the completion of any legal
agreements required by this Strategy on terms and conditions
acceptable to the City.
Note to Applicant: The Strategy must include details on how the
development will prioritize walking, cycling, and public transit,
and support low carbon vehicles.
45. Provision of an Integrated Rainwater Management Plan that
utilizes sustainable strategies to allow for infiltration, retention,
treatment and utilization of rainwater where applicable and
appropriate on site, to the satisfaction of the Chief Building

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 17
Official, the General Manager of Engineering Services and the
Director of Planning.
Note to Applicant: The development’s Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan must address the City’s Integrated Rainwater
Management Plan. Post-development flows cannot exceed the
site’s pre-development flows. Updates to the Integrated
Rainwater Management Plan (IRMP) shall be resubmitted at each
project phase to confirm that rate and volume targets have been
achieved.
46. All planting on street right-of-way are to be maintained by the
adjacent property owner and note on landscape plan.
47. All plant material within the same continuous planting area
which is located on street right-of-way within 10 m, measured
from the corner, of an intersection, pedestrian crossing,
entrance to a driveway or other conflict areas where sightlines
need to be maintained for safety reasons, shall not exceed a
mature height of 0.6 m, measured from the sidewalk.
48. All plant material within the street right-of-way which are
located outside of the areas described in condition 47 shall not
exceed 1 m in height, measured from the sidewalk. Exceptions
will be approved on a case-by-case basis by the City of
Vancouver’s Street Activities Branch.
49. Provision of a CIP light broom finish concrete sidewalk with saw
cut joints for all CoV SRW sidewalks and walking paths.
50. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The following items are required to meet the
provisions of the parking by-law and the Parking and Loading and
Design Guidelines. Please contact Dave Kim of the
Neighbourhood Parking and Transportation Branch at 604-873-
6279 for more information or refer to the following link:
(http://former.vancouver.ca/engsvcs/parking/admin/developer
s.htm)
(i) Provision of Class B loading spaces to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services. Any loading
relaxations to be dealt with on a site by site basis.
(ii) Design development to achieve convenient on-site ‘stairs
free’ loading access to all uses from the loading spaces.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 18
(iii) Design development to achieve convenient access from
Class A bicycle parking to the provided end of trip
facilities for all non-residential uses.
(iv) All Class A bicycle spaces must be located on the P1
parking level or at grade.
(v) All Class B bicycle spaces to be located on private
property in close proximity to the lobby or building
entrance with ‘stairs free’ access and weather
protection.
(vi) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
(vii) Dimension all stall widths, column encroachments, and
maneuvering aisle widths.
Note to Applicant: Ensure column sizing and placements
comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement.
A column 2’ in length must be set back 2’ from either the
opening to or the end of the parking space. A column 3’
long may be set back 1’.
(viii) The slope and crossfall within the parking and loading
areas shall not exceed 5%.
(ix) Provision of on-site maneuvering for all Class B and C
loading spaces. Provide improved plans showing the
loading spaces with the required loading throats and
maneuvering in 3 movements or less.
(x) Provision minimum vertical clearance for the main ramp,
security gates, and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical
clearance is required for access and maneuvering to all
disability spaces. A minimum of 3.8 m of vertical
clearance is required for Class B loading spaces and
maneuvering.
(xi) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 19
(xii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking
ramp at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay,
within the parking areas and at all entrances.
Note to Applicant: Ensure the various ramp designs meet
the following requirements:
a. The slope must not exceed 10% for the first 20’
from the property line.
b. The slope must not exceed 12.5% after the first
20’ from the property line. 15% slopes may be
acceptable if a 7.5% to 10% transition ramp is
provided at the bottom for at least 4 m in length.
c. Ramps which have a 15% slope and are exposed to
the weather must be heated.
d. Provision of two-way traffic flow in the main ramp
(Section I.B) – 9’x9’corner cut through the inside
radius at the bottom of the main parking ramp to
enable two vehicles to pass each other
unobstructed.
e. Corner cuts are required at the top and bottom of
ramps to provide adequate radii for continuous
two-way traffic flow where 200 or more vehicles
are being served.
f. Parking ramps must be designed to position
vehicles perpendicular to the street to facilitate
ease of vehicle ingress and egress from either
direction of travel in the lane.
Low Carbon Energy
51. All buildings in the development connected to a City-Recognized
Low Carbon Energy System shall adhere to the following
conditions:
(i) The proposed approach to site heating and cooling,
developed in collaboration with the City, shall be
provided in detail prior to the issuance of any
development permit, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 20
(ii) Detailed design of the Low Carbon Energy System(s),
including but not limited to building HVAC, mechanical
heating system and domestic hot water system must be
submitted and approved by the General Manager of
Engineering Services prior to issuance of building permit.
(iii) The energy system for the development shall be designed
in such a way as to enable energy metering and the
monitoring of performance metrics during system
operation for the purpose of optimizing system
performance and preparing system performance reports.
The applicant shall refer to the Performance Monitoring
and Reporting Requirements for Low Carbon Energy
Systems (updated February 2014 or later) for a summary
of minimum requirements. The applicant will be required
to demonstrate compliance with these requirements prior
to issuance of building permit.
(iv) Final detailed design of the Low Carbon Energy System(s)
must be to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Parks and Recreation, the
General Manager of Community Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services, and the Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the
sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make arrangements for
the following:
Note: With regard to Parcel or Phasing numbers refer to Figure 4:
Proposed Development Phasing and with regard to Streets refer to
Figure 7: Transportation Network, both contained in the Policy Report
dated June 13, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 500-650 West 57th
Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)”.
Engineering
1. Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services, the Approving Officer, and the Director of
Legal Services for the following.
(i) Subdivision of Lots 2 to 5, Block 1004, DL 526, Plan 20607
to create Phase 1 parcels A, B, C and E and the dedication

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 21
of those portions of Internal Street 2 and 58th Avenue not
encumbered by Dogwood Facility buildings.
(ii) Registration of a No Development Covenant over the
remainder of the development site to secure the
subsequent subdivisions for the development sites, transit
parcel, park and farm parcels, housing parcels, childcare
parcel and road dedications.
(iii) Registration of Statutory Right-of–Way (SRW)/Option to
Purchase agreements over the proposed public roads for
the rest of the site. The 66 ft. wide roads are to be
defined by a Reference Plan of Statutory Right–of-Way
suitable for registration at the Land Title Office. The SRW
for road purposes (66 ft. wide) is to be operable upon
notice to exercise the option and the option is to be
exercised and the portions of roads dedicated prior to
occupancy of each of the applicable phased parcels.
(iv) Registration of a Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) over the
“High Street Commons”, “Pearson Plaza”, “Transit
Plaza”, “Cambie Walk Retail Plaza” and the site-wide
system of internal walkways, for 24-hour pedestrian and
cyclist access and recreational use by the public. The
SRW is to be a blanket charge (defined by sketch plan)
and to be modified to volumetric plan based on the as-
built conditions. The modifications are to be registered
prior to occupancy of each of the applicable phased
parcels. Maintenance of these areas is to be the
responsibility of the adjacent property owners.
Note to Applicant: The spaces for walking, cycling and
motor vehicle travel should be designed to encourage
slow cycling without the need for dismount or be
separated to provide safety and comfort for all active
modes.
2. Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services, the Approving Officer, and the Director of
Legal Services for the delivery to the City of a fee simple dirt
site for entrance to potential future Canada Line station. To
secure this condition the applicant will enter into agreements
with the City which include, but may not be limited to the
following requirements, all to be satisfied at no cost to the City:
(i) Subdivision to create a parcel of not less than 8,000 sq.
ft. at the southwest corner of Cambie Street and 57th
Avenue;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 22
(ii) Applicant will be responsible for servicing parcel;
(iii) Applicant will be responsible for ensuring that parcel
meets Environmental Management Act requirements for
applicable land use prior to transfer of parcel to City;
(iv) Parcel to be zoned for intended use;
(v) Parcel to be transferred to the City free and clear of any
financial charges, liens and other encumbrances in
Phase 1;
(vi) Anticipated that parcel will be transferred to City by the
end of the first quarter of 2025 and must be transferred
to City no later than the end of the first quarter of 2027;
(vii) If parcel is not transferred to the City by the end of the
first quarter of 2027 then the City will be entitled to hold
issuance of permits across any phase of the development
at it sole discretion; and
(viii) option to purchase in favour of the City to secure transfer
of parcel to City.
Note to Applicant: The foregoing agreements will include
holds to ensure that the parcel is delivered when
anticipated/required. The foregoing agreements may also
include rights for the City to trigger delivery of the parcel
if applicant’s development is not proceeding according to
intended timelines.
3. Arrangements are to be made for release of any redundant City
charges on title prior to building occupancy including, but not
limited to, the following:
(i) Easement and Indemnity Agreement 550948M
(commercial crossings),
(ii) Restrictive Covenant N82508 (No Development - Lots 1, 3
& 5),
(iii) Options to Purchase N82506 & N82504 (Park Requirements
- Lots 1, 3 and 5), and
(iv) Associated Equitable Charges N82505 & N82507.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of any

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 23
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a Letter of
Commitment will satisfy this condition.
4. Make arrangements with Telus for the removal of their
infrastructure located within Statutory Right of Way BW201354
on Lot 1. Provision of written confirmation from Telus and the
subsequent release of the charge from title.
Note to Applicant: The release is to occur prior to occupancy and
after the Telus works have been removed, relocated, and/or
abandoned. Provision of a Letter of Commitment and written
confirmation from Telus that arrangements are satisfactory will
address this condition at the DP stage.
5. Make arrangements for the registration of a sewer Statutory
Right-of-Way to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services if
required.
6. Make arrangements for the registration of a public access
Statutory Right-of-Way for the bike stop station to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services and
the Director of Legal Services. SRW to be blanket charge and
modified to a surface plan based on as-built conditions.
7. Make arrangements for the registration of a 33 m X 33 m
Statutory Right-of-Way (SRW) for the potential future Canada
Line Station construction staging and access at the southwest
corner of 57th Avenue and Cambie Street to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services.
8. Make arrangements for the registration of the following surface
Statutory Right-of-Ways (SRW) for sidewalk purposes on 57th
Avenue, 59th Avenue, Heather Street and Cambie Street, to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services and
the Director of Legal Services:
(i) A 5 m x 5 m corner cut on the NW corner of the site, at
the intersection of Heather Street and 57th Avenue.
(ii) A 1 m SRW on the south side of 57th Avenue, from
Cambie Street to Internal Street 2.
(iii) A 3 m SRW on the north side of 59th Avenue, from
Heather Street to Cambie Street.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 24
(iv) A 3 m x 3 m corner cut on the SW corner of the site, at
the intersection of Heather Street and 59th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: The corner cut is required in addition
to the 3 m SRW on 59th Avenue.
(v) Make arrangements for the registration of surface
Statutory Rights-of-Way (SRWs) for corner cuts on the SW
and NW corners of Cambie Street and 58th Avenue to
accommodate Class C truck maneuvering. Provide
maneuvering diagrams for the largest truck required to
access the site to determine the dimensions of the corner
cut.
Note to Applicant: The SRWs are required to provide
protected bike lanes, sidewalks and travel lanes as per
the City geometric design. A legal survey of the existing
dimension from the back of the City curb is required to
determine the final setback/SRW dimension. The SRW
areas will be free of any encumbrance such as structure,
stairs, door swing, landscape and bicycle parking at grade
but the encroaching building portions shown below grade
and at the 3rd storey and above can be accommodated
within the SRW agreement.
9. Provision of a natural watercourse agreement. Records indicate a
natural watercourse passes through this site, a legal agreement
ensuring that should the watercourse be discovered or impact
the site during development and beyond that its flow will not be
obstructed.
10. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and off-
site works and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of
the site (collectively called the “services”) such that they are
designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all
necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued
until the security for the services is provided.
(i) Provision for street improvements on the following
streets:
a. The south side of 57th Avenue, from Heather
Street to Cambie Street. Both sides of Heather
Street, from 57th Avenue to 59th Avenue.
b. The west side of Cambie Street, from 57th Avenue
to 59th Avenue.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 25
c. The north side of 59th Avenue, from Heather
Street to Cambie Street.
Street improvements generally include the following: new
curb and gutter, raised protected bike lanes, protected
intersections, broom finish concrete sidewalks with saw
cut joints, improved street and pedestrian LED lighting,
traffic signals, boulevard landscaping, pavement,
crossings, curb ramps, street furniture, and all incidental
Roadworks to accommodate the street improvements.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements on
Cambie Street are subject to completion and adoption of
the Cambie Corridor Public Realm Plan. The City will
provide an approved geometric design for construction.
(ii) Provision of Internal Street 1 including but not limited to
a new concrete curb and gutter, sidewalk, pavement,
tree boulevard, green infrastructure and lighting to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services. Work to include adjustment or installation of
related infrastructure to allow for the proposed road
construction.
(iii) Provision of Internal Street 2 including but not limited to
a new concrete curb and gutter, sidewalk, pavement,
tree boulevard, green infrastructure and lighting to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services. Work to include adjustment or installation of
related infrastructure to allow for the proposed road
construction.
(iv) Provision of the extension of 58th Avenue including but
not limited to a new concrete curb and gutter, sidewalk,
pavement, tree boulevard, green infrastructure and
lighting to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services. Work to include adjustment or
installation of related infrastructure to allow for the
proposed road construction.
(v) Provision of a Temporary Transit Plaza including without
limitation all structures, improvements, walkways,
pavement, specialty pavement, surfacing, retaining
walls, bollards, markings signage, Landscaping, lighting,
railings, septs, seating, benches, furniture, bike racks,
litter containers and all other works necessary for
lighting, drainage and irrigation and all other facilities,
improvements and works necessary or associated with or

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 26
incidental to the aforementioned works as required in the
opinion of the City Engineer and the Director of Planning
to be constructed or installed or improved in connection
with the development of Parcel D.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements on
Cambie Street are subject to completion and adoption of
the Cambie Corridor Public Realm Plan.
(vi) Provision of new traffic signals and geometric changes at
Ash Crescent and 57th Avenue to accommodate separated
bicycle facilities and pedestrian crossings.
Note to Applicant: When and if a rezoning application is
received for Langara Gardens (subject to the timing of
the Langara Gardens rezoning) then City staff would
support cost sharing for this item between the applicant
and the applicant for the Langara Gardens rezoning.
(vii) Provision of new traffic signals and geometric changes at
Internal Street 2 and 57th Avenue to accommodate
separated bicycle facilities and pedestrian crossings.
(viii) Provision of new traffic signals and geometric changes at
Cambie Street and 58th Avenue to accommodate
separated bicycle facilities.
(ix) Provision of traffic signal improvements and geometric
changes at Oak Street and 57th Avenue and at Oak Street
and 59th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: The improvements were proposed in
the Transportation Assessment report and are subject to
further analysis during the development permit stage.
When and if a rezoning application is received for
Langara Gardens (subject to the timing of the Langara
Gardens rezoning) then City staff would support cost
sharing for this item between the applicant and the
applicant for the Langara Gardens rezoning.
(x) Provision of traffic signal improvements and geometric
changes at Heather Street and 57th Avenue to
accommodate semi-actuated traffic signals and separated
bicycle facilities.
Note to Applicant: There are existing pedestrian signals.
The improvements, subject to a detailed review of the
intersection, may include full reconstruction of the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 27
signals. When and if a rezoning application is received for
Langara Gardens (subject to the timing of the Langara
Gardens rezoning) then City staff would support cost
sharing for this item between the applicant and the
applicant for the Langara Gardens rezoning.
(xi) Provision of traffic signal improvements and geometric
changes at Cambie Street and 57th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: The improvements, subject to a
detailed review of the intersection, may include full
reconstruction of the signals. When and if a rezoning
application is received for Langara Gardens (subject to
the timing of the Langara Gardens rezoning) then City
staff would support cost sharing for this item between
the applicant and the applicant for the Langara Gardens
rezoning.
(xii) Provision of traffic signal improvements and geometric
changes at Cambie Street and 59th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: The improvements, subject to a
detailed review of the intersection, may include full
reconstruction of the signals.
(xiii) Provision of improvements and geometric changes at the
intersection of Heather Street and 59th Avenue including
removal of the existing traffic circle and installation of a
crosswalk with paint markings and signage.
(xiv) Provision of a crosswalk with paint markings and signage
on the south leg of the intersection of Heather Street and
Internal Street 1 and a corner bulge on the south side of
Internal Street 1.
(xv) Provision of $200,000, at the discretion of General
Manager of Engineering Services, for traffic monitoring
and calming measures to reduce vehicle traffic in
adjacent neighbourhoods.
Note to Applicant: A letter of credit or cash deposit in
the value of up to $200,000 is required to be delivered
prior to By-law enactment. Any balance or unused funds
may be returned after 5 years of the occupancy of the
last building.
(xvi) Provision of upgraded street lighting on 59th Avenue,
57th Avenue, Cambie Street and Heather Street, and new

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 28
pedestrian lighting on 59th Avenue (North Arm Trail) to
current standards.
Note to Applicant: A review of the existing lighting is
required to determine its adequacy. When and if a
rezoning application is received for Langara Gardens
(subject to the timing of the Langara Gardens rezoning)
then City staff would support cost sharing for items on
57th Avenue between the applicant and the applicant for
the Langara Gardens rezoning.
(xvii) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(xviii) Provision of a new water main along Cambie Street from
57th to 59th Avenue, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services. The developer is
responsible for 100% of the costs.
Note to Applicant: The Site cannot be serviced off 59th
Avenue unless the developer provides a new water main
along 59th Avenue between Cambie Street and Heather
Street. The site is located along a zone boundary and is
serviced by 2 different pressure zones. The pressure zone
boundary will need to be adjusted so the entire site is
within a single pressure zone. Additional onsite water
mains may be required as determined by the developer if
the parcels cannot be serviced from existing water mains.
The developer is responsible for 100% of the costs.
(xix) Provision of a minimum of 4 new hydrants to provide
adequate fire coverage. The developer is responsible for
100% of the costs.
Note to Applicant: The existing fire hydrant spacing is
insufficient to support the proposed development.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 29
(xx) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service
to meet the demands of the project. The current
application lacks the details to determine if sewer main
upgrading is required. Please supply project details
including floor area, projected fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer to determine if
sewer system upgrading is required. Should upgrading be
necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director
of Legal Services will be required to secure payment for
the upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of
any sewer system upgrading costs that may be required.
(xxi) Provision of a condition assessment of the existing
combined sewers along 59th Avenue between Heather
and Cambie Street.
(xxii) Provision of sewer separation of the existing combined
sewers along 59th Avenue between Heather Street and
Cambie Street, to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services. The developer is responsible for
100% of the cost to separate the existing combined
sewers.
(xxiii) Provision of a condition assessment and sewer separation
of the existing combined sewers along Heather Street
between 57th Avenue and 59th Avenue, and upgrades to
the existing separated sewer system south of 59th Avenue
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services. The developer is responsible for 100% of any
sewer system upgrading and separation costs that may be
required.
Note to Applicant: The existing separated sewer system
south of 59th Avenue may need to be upgraded to meet
the demands of this project. Please supply project details
including floor area, projected fixture counts and other
details as required by the City Engineer.
(xxiv) Upgrades to the sewers along Heather Street will not be
required if the storm and sanitary sewers are routed
through the development. Registration of a sewer
Statutory-Right-of-Way is required, to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services and the
Director of Legal Services.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 30
(xxv) Provision of all new and existing utility services to be
underground from the closest existing suitable service
point. All electrical services to the site must be primary
with all electrical plant, which include but not limited to
System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers, LPT and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro
kiosks) are to be located on private property with no
reliance on public property for placement of these
features. In addition, there will be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical
network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the
existing overhead/underground utility network to
accommodate this development will require approval by
the Utilities Management Branch. If this development
opts for a gas service, the gas riser must be installed on
private property.
Note to Applicant: Ensure that in your consultation with
BC Hydro that an area has been defined within the development
footprint to accommodate such electrical plant. Please confirm
that this space has been allocated and agreement between both
parties has been met.
11. Arrangements shall be made, to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
for a Right-of-Way (SRW) for the provision of space to
accommodate three Public Bike Share (PBS) Stations.
(i) Size: At minimum, 3 PBS stations, of the following size
shall be accommodated;
a. One large-sized station 43 m x 4 m (linear
configuration) or 22 m x 8 m (back-to-back
configuration) at the future transit plaza at
Cambie Street and 57th Avenue.
b. One small-sized station 16 m x 4 m (linear
configuration) at Heather Street and 59th Avenue.
c. One small-sized station 16 m x 4 m (linear
configuration) at Heather Street and 57th Avenue.
Note to Applicant: The full length of the space is to be
continuous. The physical station with docked bicycles is
2 m wide and has a required bicycle maneuvering zone
of 2 m for a total width of 4 m.
(ii) Location: The 3 stations must be fully located on private
property while still clearly visible to the public with
24-hour public access. Preferred locations are near the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 31
intersection of Cambie Street and 57th Avenue (transit
plaza), Heather Street and 59th Avenue (bike stop), and
Heather Street and 57th Avenue to allow easy access to
the street. Alternate locations for the small-sized PBS
stations are at Cambie Street and 59th Avenue (minor
plaza).
(iii) Access: Consideration for placement of building elements
(e.g. fire department connections, HVAC vents, etc.) and
landscaping that require frequent access and
maintenance directly adjacent to the PBS space. These
elements shall not be in conflict or cause frequent
disruption to the PBS station.
(iv) Surface treatment: A hard surface is required with no
utility access points within the PBS station footprint
(except as noted below). Any utility access point within
1 m of the PBS space is to be identified and shown in a
detailed drawing submitted. Acceptable surfaces include
CIP concrete (saw cut or broom finished), asphalt and
pavers. Other firm, paved materials are subject to
approval.
(v) Grades: The surface must be leveled with a maximum
cross slope of 3% and have a consistent grade (i.e. no
grade transitions) along the length with a maximum slope
of 5%. At minimum, spot elevations at the four corners of
the station must be provided.
(vi) Sun exposure: There must be a minimum of 5 m vertical
clearance above the PBS space in order to maximize sun
exposure as station operates on solar power. Ideally the
station should receive 5 hours of direct sunlight a day.
(vii) Power: Provision of an electrical service and electrical
power is to be available in close proximity to the PBS
station.
12. Enter into a Shared Vehicle Agreement with the City to secure
the provision, operation and maintenance of Shared Vehicle(s)
and the provision and maintenance of Shared Vehicle Parking
Space(s) for use exclusively by such Shared Vehicle(s), on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services, including
the following:
(i) provide the following number of Shared Vehicle(s) to the
development for a minimum period of 3 years:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 32
a. minimum 3 Shared Vehicles for parcels with more
than 299 dwelling units,
b. minimum 2 Shared Vehicles for parcels with more
than 149 dwelling units, and
c. minimum 1 Shared Vehicle for all other parcels
with dwelling units.
(ii) enter into an agreement with a Shared Vehicle
Organization satisfactory to the General Manager of
Engineering Services to secure the operation and
maintenance of the Shared Vehicle(s);
(iii) provide and maintain the Shared Vehicle Parking Space(s)
for use exclusively by such shared vehicles;
(iv) make arrangements to allow members of the Shared
Vehicle Organization access to the Shared Vehicle Parking
Space(s);
(v) provide security in the form of a Letter of Credit for
$50,000 per Shared Vehicle;
(vi) registration of the Shared Vehicle Agreement against the
title to the development, with such priority as the
Director of Legal Services may require and including a
covenant under section 219 of the Land Title Act of
British Columbia, a statutory right of way, or other
instrument satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
securing these condition; and
(vii) provision of a letter of commitment from a car share
company indicating their willingness to supply car share
vehicles on the site at building occupancy.
Note to Applicant: These shared vehicles and spaces are
above and beyond the base parking requirement. Shared
vehicle spaces are required to be a minimum width of
2.9 m.
Low Carbon Energy Supply
13. As part of the Low Carbon Energy Supply Feasibility Screening
Study required in the Conditions (c) 21 and 22, a feasibility study
on the use of Passive House design (or alternate near zero
emissions standard), should be included if chosen as the method
for achieving low carbon in non-residential, mid-rise residential,
and low-rise residential buildings in the development. The
feasibility study must be completed prior to issuance of the first

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 33
development permit in Phase 1, and to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services and Director of
Sustainability.
Note to Applicant: The feasibility study should include estimates
of incremental costs and savings and operational cost savings
(depending on building ownership type) of building to Passive
House, and the effect on the low carbon business case.
14. The applicant will enter into such agreements as the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services determine are necessary for a Low Carbon Energy
System that may include, but are not limited to, agreements
which:
(i) Require that any development and operation of a building
connected to a City-recognized Low Carbon Energy
System meet or outperform applicable performance
requirements provided in the Form of Development
Condition under Sustainability.
(ii) Require the delivery to the City of scheduled
performance reporting on any Low Carbon Energy
System(s), containing detailed information as required
and to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
15. As part of the Low Carbon Energy Supply Feasibility Screening
Study required in the Conditions c) 13 and 14, include a
feasibility study on the use of Passive House design (or alternate
near zero emissions standard, as approved by the Director of
Sustainability) for achieving low carbon in non-residential,
mid-rise residential, and low-rise residential buildings in the
development. The feasibility study must be completed prior to
issuance of the first development permit in Phase 1, and to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services and
Director of Sustainability.
Note to Applicant: The feasibility study should include estimates
of incremental costs and savings and operational cost savings
(depending on building ownership type) of building to Passive
House, and the effect on the low carbon business case.
16. The applicant will enter into such agreements as the Director of
Sustainability and the Director of Legal Services determine are
necessary that may include, but are not limited to, agreements
which:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 34
(i) Require that any development of a building meet or
outperform the GHGI performance limits by building type
provided in Condition (b) 38.
(ii) For buildings meeting the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended
February 7, 2017), the applicant will enter into an
agreement with the City, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Director of Sustainability and the
Director of Legal Services, that requires the future owner
of the building to report energy use data, on an
aggregated basis, for the building as a whole and certain
common areas and building systems. Such an agreement
will further provide for the hiring of a qualified service
provider to assist the building owner for a minimum of
three years in collecting and submitting energy use data
to the City.
Social Policy
17. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal
Services, in consultation with the General Manager of Real Estate
and Facilities Management and the General Manager of
Community Services, for the provision of a 69-space childcare
facility in phase 1. To secure this condition the applicant will
enter into agreements with the City which include, but may not
be limited to, the following requirements, all to be satisfied at
no cost to the City:
(i) construction and delivery of a turnkey and fully fit,
finished, equipped and supplied 69 space childcare
facility on Parcel C in Phase 1 which meets the City’s
Childcare Design Guidelines and Childcare Technical
Guidelines;
(ii) fully fit, finished, equipped and supplied childcare
facility to be transferred to the City;
(iii) the childcare facility will have an indoor area of at least
765 sq. m (8,235 sq. ft.) on one level, a dedicated
adjacent outdoor space of not less than 745 sq. m
(8,020 sq. ft.), dedicated parking stalls and amenity and
storage spaces;
(iv) requirement to air space subdivide the parcel within
which the childcare facility is situate and transfer the
remainder parcel (housing the childcare facility) to the
City free and clear of any financial charges, liens and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 35
other encumbrances prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit for any other development on Parcel C;
(v) Anticipated that parcel will be transferred to City by the
end of the first quarter of 2022 and must be transferred
to City no later than the end of the first quarter of 2025;
(vi) If parcel is not transferred to the City by the end of the
first quarter of 2025 then the City will be entitled to hold
issuance of permits across any phase of the development
at it sole discretion;
(vii) option to purchase in favour of the City to secure transfer
of the childcare facility and the remainder parcel; and
(viii) air space easement agreement will provide that shared
systems to be maintained by owner(s) of one of the air
space parcels and that costs of maintaining shared
systems will be shared in fair and equitable manner
between owners of all parcels, including the City as
owner of the remainder parcel. Agreement to include
other standard provisions including reciprocal indemnities
between the owners.
Note to Applicant: The foregoing agreements will include holds
to ensure that the parcel is delivered when
anticipated/required.
Housing
Social Housing (turnkey)
18. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services, the General Manager of Real Estate and
Facilities Management and the Director of Legal Services for the
delivery to the City of turnkey social housing units in phase 1 and
phase 2. To secure this condition the applicant will enter into
agreements with the City which include, but may not be limited
to the following requirements, all to be satisfied at no cost to
the City:
(i) construction and delivery of a minimum of 138 social
housing units in no less than 117,201 sq. ft. of buildable
area to be designed, constructed and equipped in
accordance with the City’s Housing Design and Technical
Guidelines in Parcel A of Phase 1 along with required
parking, storage and amenity spaces;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 36
(ii) construction and delivery of a minimum of 223 social
housing units in no less than 188,811 sq. ft. of buildable
area to be designed, constructed and equipped in
accordance with the City’s Housing Design and Technical
Guidelines in Parcel D of Phase 2 along with required
parking, storage and amenity spaces;
(iii) in each of phase 1 and phase 2, air space subdivide the
parcel within which the social housing units are situate
and transfer the remainder parcel (housing the social
housing units) to the City free and clear of any financial
charges, liens and other encumbrances prior to the
issuance of an occupancy permit for any other
development on Parcel A and Parcel D respectively;
(iv) anticipated that social housing remainder parcel in
Phase 1 will be transferred to City by the end of the first
quarter of 2022 and must be transferred to City no later
than the end of the first quarter of 2024;
(v) if the social housing remainder parcel in Phase 1 is not
transferred to the City by the end of the first quarter of
2024 then the City will be entitled to hold issuance of
permits across any phase of the development at it sole
discretion;
(vi) anticipated that social housing remainder parcel in
Phase 2 will be transferred to City by the end of the first
quarter of 2025 and must be transferred to City no later
than the end of the first quarter of 2027;
(vii) if the social housing remainder parcel in Phase 2 is not
transferred to the City by the end of the first quarter of
2027 then the City will be entitled to hold issuance of
permits across any phase of the development at it sole
discretion;
(viii) option to purchase in favour of the City to secure transfer
of the social housing units and the remainder parcel in
each of Phase 1 and Phase 2; and
(ix) air space easement agreement will provide that shared
systems to be maintained by owner(s) of one of the air
space parcels and that costs of maintaining shared
systems will be shared in fair and equitable manner
between owners of all parcels, including the City as
owner of the remainder parcel. Agreement to include

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 37
other standard provisions including reciprocal indemnities
between the owners.
Note to Applicant: The foregoing agreements will include holds
to ensure that the parcel is delivered when
anticipated/required.
Social Housing (dirt sites)
19. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services, the General Manager of Real Estate and
Facilities Management and the Director of Legal Services for the
delivery of two fee simple dirt sites (Parcels H2 and H3) in Phase
5 comprising at least one acre of land. To secure this condition
the applicant will enter into agreements with the City which
include, but may not be limited to the following requirements,
all to be satisfied at no cost to the City:
(i) Subdivision to create Parcels H2 and H3;
(ii) Applicant will be responsible for servicing parcels;
(iii) Applicant will be responsible for ensuring that parcels
meet Environmental Management Act requirements for
residential land use prior to transfer of parcels to City;
(iv) Parcels H2 and H3 to be zoned to build at least 74 and
105 social housing units respectively and with a minimum
buildable area of at least 65,520 sq. ft. and 89,468 sq.
ft., respectively;
(v) Parcels H2 and H3 will be transferred to the City free and
clear of any financial charges, liens and other
encumbrances;
(vi) Anticipated that parcels will be transferred to City by the
end of the first quarter of 2022 and must be transferred
to City no later than the earlier of the end of the first
quarter of 2027 and the date that the first occupancy
permit is issued for Phase 4;
(vii) If parcels are not transferred to the City by the end of
the first quarter of 2027 then the City will be entitled to
hold issuance of permits across any phase of the
development at it sole discretion;
(viii) Applicant will deliver a subdivision plan to create Parcel
H2 and H3 which has been approved by the Approving

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 38
Officer and the General Manager of Community Services,
the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management and the Director of Legal Services prior to
issuance of the first development permit application for
Phase 4;
(ix) Applicant will complete the transfer of the parcels to the
City no later than the earlier of the end of the first
quarter of 2027 and the date that the first occupancy
permit is issued for Phase 4; and
(x) options to purchase in favour of the City to secure
transfer of parcels to City.
Note to Applicant: The foregoing agreements will include holds
to ensure that the parcel is delivered when
anticipated/required. The foregoing agreements may also
include rights for the City to trigger delivery of the dirt sites if
applicant’s development is not proceeding according to intended
timelines.
Pearson Supportive Units
20. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services for the
delivery of a minimum of 114 replacement Pearson supportive
housing units. To secure this condition the City may require the
applicant to enter into agreements with the City which include,
but may not be limited to the following requirements, all to be
satisfied at no cost to the City:
(i) delivery of a minimum of 50 units within Phase 1; and
delivery of a minimum of 64 units across phases 2-5 as
follows:
a. 40 units to be delivered in phase 2;
b. 14 units to be delivered in phase 3;
c. 5 units to be delivered in Phase 4; and
d. 5 units to be delivered in Phase 5.
(ii) Requirements regarding resident relocation, phasing and
demolition as set out in part (b) of section 29 of the Form
of Development Conditions.
Note to Applicant: The General Manager of Community Services
may agree to vary the proposed phasing plan for phases 2-5 as
part of a Development Permit application, provided that there is
evidence satisfactory to the General Management of Community

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 39
Services to demonstrate that the proposed variations better
reflect the requirements of the Pearson residents. The foregoing
agreements will include holds to ensure that the Pearson
replacement units are delivered when anticipated and may
include holds on permits for subsequent phases as required.
21. Applicant to provide a preliminary resident relocation,
construction phasing and demolition plan for the replacement of
the existing Pearson units prior to enactment of the rezoning.
Adult Day Centre
22. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services for the
delivery of a minimum of 4,719 sq. ft. adult day centre. To
secure this condition the City may require the applicant to enter
into agreements with the City which require the applicant to
design, construct and transfer the adult daycare facility to
Vancouver Coastal Health Authority in Phase 1 all to be satisfied
at no cost to the City.
Note to Applicant: The foregoing agreements will include holds
to ensure that the adult day centre is delivered when
anticipated and may include holds on permits for subsequent
phases as required.
Musqueam First Nation Housing
23. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and General Manager of Real Estate and
Facilities Management to secure the delivery of 12 turnkey social
housing units which will be made available for use by the
Musqueam First Nation (“MFN”). To secure this condition the City
may require the applicant to enter into agreements with the City
which include, but may not be limited to the following
requirements, all to be satisfied at no cost to the City:
(i) construction of 12 turnkey social housing units or
payment of the cost of constructing 12 turnkey social
housing units prior to issuance of the first occupancy
permit for any development in Phase 4;
(ii) applicant to work with VCH and MFN to agree on the
preferred location of the 12 social housing units;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 40
(iii) applicant to work with VCH and MFN to agree on the
ownership arrangements for the 12 social housing units;
and
(iv) for the purposes of determining the construction cost of
the social housing units the parties may use the
construction costs for the turn key social housing units
delivered to the City in Phase 1 and Phase 2 adjusted for
inflation as appropriate.
Note to Applicant: The foregoing agreements will include holds
to ensure that the Musqueam housing units are delivered when
anticipated and may include holds on permits for subsequent
phases as required.
Therapeutic Pool
24. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and the General
Manager of Community Services to design and construct a warm
water therapeutic pool built to current standards. To secure this
condition the City may require the applicant to enter into
agreements with the City which include, but may not be limited
to, holds to ensure that the Therapeutic Pool is delivered
when anticipated and may include holds on permits for
subsequent phases as required, all to be satisfied at no cost to
the City:
(i) Pool to be completed during phase 1.
Note to Applicant:
To ensure current standards and service levels are
maintained, VCH should demonstrate through future design
development that public access is maintained to the renewed
therapy pool facility.
Parks
25. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Parks and Recreation in consultation with the General Manager
of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services for the
delivery of a 2.5-acre park and 1.0-acre urban farm. To secure
this condition the applicant will enter into agreements with the
City which include, but may not be limited to the following
requirements, all to be satisfied at no cost to the City:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 41
(i) Subdivision to create 2.5-acre park parcel and 1.0-acre
farm parcel;
(ii) Applicant will be responsible for servicing parcels;
(iii) Applicant will be responsible for ensuring that parcels
meet Environmental Management Act requirements for
intended use prior to transfer of parcels to City;
(iv) Parcels to be zoned for park and farm use, respectively;
(v) Park Board to design and construct the park and the
urban farm through a Park Board led design and
consultation process;
(vi) cost of park construction will be paid for through Park
DCLs;
(vii) Park parcel will be transferred to the City free and clear
of any financial charges, liens and other encumbrances
during Phase 1;
(viii) Urban farm parcel will be transferred to the City free and
clear of any financial charges, liens and other
encumbrances during Phase 1;
(ix) Anticipated that park parcel and farm parcel will be
transferred to City by the end of the first quarter of 2022
and must be transferred to City no later than the end of
the first quarter of 2024;
(x) If parcels are not transferred to the City by the end of
the first quarter of 2024 then the City will be entitled to
hold issuance of permits across any phase of the
development in its sole discretion;
(xi) options to purchase in favour of the City to secure
transfer of parcels to City;
Note to Applicant: The foregoing agreements will include holds
to ensure that the park and farm parcels are delivered when
anticipated/required. The foregoing agreements may also
include rights for the City to trigger delivery of the park and
farm parcels if applicant’s development is not proceeding
according to intended timelines.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 42
Public Art
26. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Directors of Legal
Services and Cultural Services for the provision of public art in
accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the
aforesaid officials; and provide development details to the
satisfaction of the Public Art Program Manager.
Note to Applicant: Please call Karen Henry, Public Art Planner,
604-673-8282, to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
27. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Potential 57th Avenue Canada Line Station Contribution
28. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of
$20,000,000 which the applicant has offered to the City to be
allocated towards the construction of a future station at
57th Avenue and Cambie Street.
Note to Applicant: Should the station not be attainable in the
long-term future, the financial contribution towards a future

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 43
station would be re-allocated to address the amenity priorities
identified for Pearson Dogwood and those in and around the
Cambie Corridor consistent with the respective public benefit
strategies.
29. Payment of the cash portion of the CAC is to be made as outlined
below, at no cost to the City, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services:
(i) $10,000,000 must be paid in cash prior to issuance of the
first occupancy permit in Phase 1 and $10,000,000 must
be paid in cash prior to issuance of the first occupancy
permit in Phase 2; and
(ii) interest will accrue at prime plus 3% (per Bank of
Montreal daily prime rates) from the date when such
payment is due until the date that such amount is fully
paid;
(iii) The deferral of the $20,000,000 cash CAC will be secured
by a corporate guarantee (the “City Security”) provided
by RPMG Holdings Ltd., all to the satisfaction of the City’s
Director of Legal Services (subject to due diligence on
such corporation), or other security satisfactory to the
Director of Legal Services. The City will be entitled to
realize on the City Security if the required payments are
not made to the City in the amounts and at the times set
out above.
Note to Applicant: In addition to the City Security, payment will
be secured with agreements (including Section 219 covenants)
which include permit holds to ensure that the cash CAC is
delivered when required and may include holds on permits for
subsequent phases as required.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 44
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Noise Control By-law,
generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 13, 2017,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 500-650 West 57th Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)”.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward the amendment to the Parking By-law, generally
as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated June 13, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 500-650 West 57th Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)”.
D. THAT, the application to amend Schedule E of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1 in accordance with Schedule “B” to the Sign By-law
[assigning Schedule “B” (C-2)], generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated June 13, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 500-650 West 57th
Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)”, be approved.
E. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
condition described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
June 13, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 500-650 West 57th Avenue (Pearson
Dogwood)”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law(s) for enactment prior to enactment of
the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at
the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the Managing Director of
Social Development.
F. THAT A through E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the
person making the expenditures or incurring the costs;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 45
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 2135)
COMMUNICATIONS
1. 2017 Council Meeting Schedule Revision
THAT Council approve using the following Council – Reserve meeting dates/times as set out in
the 2017 Council Meetings Schedule to hold Public Hearings:
Date Time Meeting
Tuesday, October 24, 2017 6 pm Public Hearing
Thursday, October 26, 2017 6 pm Public Hearing
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2123)
2. Replacement of Council Member on Various Council Appointed Bodies
THAT the following be appointed for a term to begin immediately and end November 4, 2018:
Body Position Council Member
City Council Deputy Mayor Councillor Tim Stevenson
Standing Committee on City Finance & Vice-Chair Councillor Tim Stevenson
Services
Cultural Communities Advisory Committee Council Liaison Councillor Adriane Carr
Greater Vancouver Regional District Board Director (4 votes) Councillor Adriane Carr
Alternate Councillor George Affleck
Art Gallery Board Councillor Heather Deal
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2124)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 46
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. Closure of a Portion of Street for Building Encroachments – 4295 Dunbar Street
July 11, 2017
A. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to apply and raise title in
the name of the City of Vancouver to the portion of Dunbar Street that contains
the encroachments of the existing building at 4295 Dunbar Street (the “Road”),
the said portion being shown on a reduced copy of a Reference Plan attached
as Appendix A to the Administrative Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled
“Closure of a Portion of Street for Building Encroachments –
4295 Dunbar Street”.
B. THAT all that volumetric portion of Road included within heavy outline and
illustrated isometrically on a plan of survey, a reduced copy of which is
attached as Appendix B to the Administrative Report dated July 11, 2017,
entitled “Closure of a Portion of Street for Building Encroachments –
4295 Dunbar Street”, be closed, stopped-up and that an easement be granted
to the owner of abutting Air Space Parcel 1 Block 82 District Lot 2027 Group 1
New Westminster District Air Space Plan EPP63885 (“Air Space Parcel 1”) to
contain the portions of the existing building which encroach onto the Road.
The easement is to be for the life of the encroaching portions of the existing
building on Air Space Parcel 1, and is to be drawn to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services.
C. THAT the fees for the document preparation, registration and use of the
easement referred to in B above are to be in accordance with those charged for
an agreement prepared pursuant to the Encroachment By-law.
D. THAT the Director of Legal Services be authorized to execute all documents
and required plans.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2125)
2. 2017 Q2 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
July 11, 2017
A. THAT Council approve a net decrease of $1.1 million to the 2015-2018 Capital
Plan, as outlined in the Administrative Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled
“2017 Q2 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts” and in Appendix 1 of the
above-noted report.
B. THAT Council approve the varying of borrowing authority of a total of
$2.0 million included in the 2015-2018 Capital Plan, as follows:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 47
(i) $1,176,040 from “Public Safety and Public Works/Street and Bridge
Infrastructure” to “Community and Civic Facilities/Civic Facilities and
Infrastructure.”
(ii) $823,960 from “Public Safety and Public Works/Street Lighting, Traffic
Signals and Communications Systems” to “Community and Civic
Facilities/Civic Facilities and Infrastructure.”
The variation of debt financing requires 2/3 affirmative votes of all Council members.
C. THAT Council approve the diverting of surplus borrowed funds of $1.82 million
from debt issued under borrowing authority in the 2009-2011 Capital Plan, from
“Public Works/Street and Bridge Infrastructure” to “Parks and Recreation
Facilities/Parks.”
The diverting of debt financing requires 2/3 affirmative votes of all Council members.
D. THAT, subject to approval of A, B, and C above, Council approve budget and
funding adjustments totaling $1.2 million to the Multi-Year Capital Project
Budgets, as outlined in this report and Appendix 1, with no change to the 2017
Capital Expenditure Budget.
E. THAT, as part of the quarterly Capital Budget closeout process, Council
approve the closeout of four completed capital projects with variances
exceeding both $50,000 and 15% of the approved multi-year capital project
budget as outlined in the Administrative Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled
“2017 Q2 Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts” and in Appendix 2 of that
report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
B AND C BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 2126)
3. Grant Application – Launching a Resilient Neighbourhoods Program
July 11, 2017
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager, responded to questions regarding the proposed Resilient
Neighbourhoods program.
Council agreed to separate the vote for D below.
MOVED by Mayor Robertson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council approve an allocation of $550,000 from the City’s Innovation
Fund to fund the co-development and launch of the Resilient Neighbourhoods
program; source of funding is the City’s Innovation Fund. This investment of

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 48
$550K will leverage over $1.1M in direct funding, resources and in-kind
contributions from a wide range of partners and stakeholders.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve grants of $210,000 to
four organizations (as outlined in Table 1 in the Administrative Report dated
July 11, 2017, entitled “Grant Application – Launching a Resilient
Neighbourhoods Program”), to support the launch of the Resilient
Neighbourhoods program.
C. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approves additional funding of
$40,000 for Neighbourhood Preparedness Grants. Staff will report back to
request Council approval for specific grant recommendations in 2018.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
B BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 2120)
D. THAT, subject to approval of A above, staff proceed with the expenditure of
$300,000 for staffing and resources for the development and delivery of the
Resilient Neighbourhoods program as detailed in the Administrative Report
dated July 11, 2017, entitled “Grant Application – Launching a Resilient
Neighbourhoods Program”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 2122)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and De Genova opposed)
4. 2017 Aboriginal Healing and Wellness Grants
July 4, 2017
THAT Council approve eight grants totalling $148,000 to non-profit organizations that
provide Elder services and Aboriginal healing and wellness activities, as listed in
Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 4, 2017, entitled “2017 Aboriginal
Healing and Wellness Grants”. Source of funding: 2017 City’s Innovation Fund the
Great Beginnings Fund.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 2127)
5. Vancouver Waterfront Initiative
June 30, 2017
Daniel Roberge, Director of Water and Sewer Green Infrastructure, Nick Page, Park Planner,
and Mark Schwark, Manager of Sewers Design Branch, responded to questions.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 49
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
A. THAT Council direct staff to complete a hydraulic model and water quality
performance model of the False Creek basin to better understand the complex
nature of the basin and opportunities for water quality improvement.
B. THAT Council direct staff to explore a floating swimming pool in False Creek.
C. THAT Council direct staff to explore a swimming beach at North East False
Creek Park in the current design process.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 2136)
POLICY REPORTS
1. Heritage Revitalization Agreement Amendment: 1451 Angus Drive –
Reifel Residence
June 29, 2017
A. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Section 592 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law to
amend the Heritage Revitalization Agreement (the “HRA”) entered into
pursuant to Heritage Revitalization Agreement By-law No. 10988 in respect of
the heritage building known as the Reifel Residence (the “Heritage Building”),
located at 1451 Angus Drive (PID 011-533-251; Lot 5, Block 50, District Lot 526,
Plan 4502) (the “Property”)), in order to permit an increase in height while at
the same time retaining the benefit of by-law variances as provided for in the
HRA, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
June 29, 2017, entitled “Heritage Revitalization Agreement Amendment:
1451 Angus Drive – Reifel Residence”.
B. THAT the amendment to the HRA shall be prepared, completed, registered and
given priority on title to the lands described above to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services and the Director of Planning.
C. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at
the risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
ii. THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2128)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 50
2. Introducing Character Home Retention Incentives and New Housing Choices in
RS Zones (Single-family) – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law
July 14, 2017
MOVED by Councllor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Sustainability and Urban Design be
instructed to make application to bring forward a by-law to amend the Zoning
and Development By-law, generally as outlined in Appendix A of the Policy
Report dated July 14, 2017, entitled “Introducing Character Home Retention
Incentives and New Housing Choices in RS Zones (Single Family) – Proposed
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”, in order to introduce
optional incentives for the retention of character homes and to add new
housing choices into all RS district schedules, and that the application be
referred to a public hearing. The proposed amendments are to:
i. Add a definition for ‘character house’ and provide the Director of
Planning with the authority to determine whether or not a building is a
character house, and add additional regulations that will apply to
‘character house’ retention projects in all zones;
ii. Amend existing intent statements of all RS district schedules to refer to
infill dwelling and multiple conversion dwelling in conjunction with
retention of a character house;
iii. Add new conditional approval uses to all RS district schedules for infill
dwelling and multiple conversion dwelling in conjunction with the
retention of a character house;
iv. Add regulations to all RS district schedules to allow additional floor area
for the retention of a character house; and,
v. Add a new relaxation provision to all RS district schedules giving the
Director of Planning the ability to relax certain regulations when a
character house is retained;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT subject to enactment of the proposed by-law amendments as generally
outlined in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 14, 2017, entitled
“Introducing Character Home Retention Incentives and New Housing Choices in
RS Zones (Single Family) – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law”,, that Council adopt the Guidelines for Additions, Infill
and Multiple Conversion Dwelling in Association with the Retention of a

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 51
Character House in an RS Zone, generally as attached in Appendix B of the
above-noted report.
C. THAT subject to the introduction of the character home retention incentives
and new housing choices described in this report, that staff be instructed to
report back to Council after one year with monitoring details and
recommendations for improvement. In addition, staff will report back on the
current interim procedure in place in discretionary zones, and ways to improve
the design review process and outcomes for discretionary and outright
applications for new house construction in all RS zones.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 2137)
3. Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention Incentives in the Mount
Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities – Proposed Amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law
July 13, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law in
order to:
(i) Amend the RT-5, RT-5A, RT-5N and RT-5AN Districts Schedule generally
as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 13, 2017,
entitled “Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention Incentives
in the Mount Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities – Proposed
Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”;
(ii) Rezone those areas shown outlined in bold on Schedule A of Appendix A
of the above-noted report from RT-4, RT-4N, RT-5A, RT-5AN, RS-1, RS-4
and RS-7, all to RT-5 and RT-5N; and
(iii) Amend the RT-6 District Schedule generally as set out in Appendix A of
the above-noted report;
in order to increase opportunities for housing choice and provide additional
incentives for the retention of character houses;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 52
B. THAT, if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
described in A above is referred to Public Hearing, then an application to
amend the applicable Sign By-law to establish regulations for the amended
RT-5, RT-5N and RT-6 districts, generally as set out in Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated July 13, 2017, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice and Character
Retention Incentives in the Mount Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland
Communities – Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”,
be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Parking
By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 13, 2017, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention
Incentives in the Mount Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities –
Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”.
D. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, at the time of
enactment of such amending by-laws, related amendments to the Subdivision
By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 13, 2017, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention
Incentives in the Mount Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities –
Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”.
E. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws,
amended RT-4, RT-4A, RT-4N, RT-4AN, RT-5, RT-5N and RT-6 Guidelines
generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
July 13, 2017, entitled “Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention
Incentives in the Mount Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities –
Proposed Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law”, for Council
adoption.
F. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amending by-laws described in A above,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward, at the time of enactment of such amending by-laws, related
amendments to the Strata Title Policies for RS, RT and RM Zones, generally in
accordance with Appendix D of the Policy Report dated July 13, 2017, entitled
“Increasing Housing Choice and Character Retention Incentives in the Mount
Pleasant and Grandview-Woodland Communities – Proposed Amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law”, for Council adoption.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 53
G. THAT A through F above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of
funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the
expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 2138)
(Councillor Carr opposed)
4. False Creek Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law Amendments
July 11, 2017
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law
generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Policy Report dated July 11,
2017, entitled “False Creek Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law
Amendments”, to achieve the following:
(i) to provide a definition for “Bulk Data Storage” in Section 2, to make
consequential amendments in Sections 9 and 11 reflecting the creation
of a new FC-2 District Schedule, and to amend Schedule F for Amenity
Share Costs for I-3 and FC-2;
(ii) to repeal and enact a new I-2 District Schedule;
(iii) to repeal and enact a new I-3 District Schedule;
(iv) to repeal and enact a new IC-3 District Schedule;
(v) to repeal and enact a new MC-1 and MC-2 Districts Schedule; and
(vi) to enact a new FC-2 District Schedule;
AND THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the above-noted
report, for consideration at the Public Hearing.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 54
AND FURTHER THAT B through H below be referred to Public Hearing for
consideration along with A above.
B. THAT Council rescind the False Creek Flats Rezoning Policy: Additional General
Office Use in “High Technology” Districts (adopted April 7, 2009), except that
staff be directed to continue to process any active rezoning applications in the
policy area.
C. THAT Council approve the Rezoning Policy and Guidelines for the False Creek
Flats, as contained in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017,
entitled “False Creek Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law
Amendments”.
D. THAT, if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law is
referred to Public Hearing, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to make application to amend the Regional Context
Statement Official Development Plan By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix D of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “False Creek
Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law Amendments”;
AND THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-law for consideration at the Public Hearing.
E. THAT, if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law is
referred to Public Hearing, then an application to amend Schedule E of the Sign
By-law to establish regulations for the new FC-2 District Schedule, generally as
set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “False
Creek Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law Amendments”, be referred
to the same Public Hearing;
AND THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-law for consideration at the Public Hearing.
F. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the Noise Control By-law be amended generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “False Creek
Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law Amendments”;
AND THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the
amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law.
G. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the Subdivision By-law be amended generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “False Creek
Flats Plan Implementation: Policy and By-law Amendments”;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 55
AND THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the
amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law.
H. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to bring forward the following for Council adoption at the time of
enactment of the amending by-law:
(i) amendments to the Brewery Creek IC-3, C-3A, C-2C and RM-4/4N
Guidelines, as contained in Appendix E of the Policy Report dated
July 11, 2017, entitled “False Creek Flats Plan Implementation: Policy
and By-law Amendments”;
(ii) amendments to the Micro Dwelling Policies and Guidelines, as contained
in Appendix F of the above-noted report;
(iii) amendments to the MC-1 and MC-2 Guidelines for Cedar Cottage,
Hudson Street and East Hastings (Clark to Semlin) Areas, as contained in
Appendix G of the above-noted report;
(iv) amendments to the East False Creek FC-1 Guidelines, as contained in
Appendix H of the above-noted report;
(v) new False Creek Flats Urban Design Policies and Guidelines for I-2 and
I-3, as contained in Appendix I of the above-noted report;
(vi) new False Creek Flats Urban Design Policies and Guidelines for IC-3 (Sub
area A), as contained in Appendix J of the above-noted report; and
(vii) new False Creek Flats Urban Design and Development Policies and
Guidelines for FC-2, as contained in Appendix K of the above-noted
report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2129)
5. CD-1 Rezoning: 618 West 32nd Avenue
July 11, 2017
A. THAT the application by Shift Architecture Inc. on behalf of Quarry (Cambie)
Development Corp., the registered owners, to rezone 618 West 32nd Avenue
[PID: 008-150-401; Lot 6, Block 819, District Lot 526, Plan 7221] from RS-1
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District,
to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.45 FSR and the height
from 9.5 m (31 ft.) to 21.7 m (71 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey
residential building containing a total of 15 dwelling units, be referred to a
Public Hearing together with:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 56
(i) plans prepared by Shift Architecture Inc., received March 17, 2016;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
618 West 32nd Avenue”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-
noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 11,
2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 618 West 32nd Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2130)
6. CD-1 Rezoning: 6137 Cambie Street (Chinese Presbyterian Church)
July 11, 2017
A. THAT the application by GBL Architecture Inc. on behalf of the Trustees of the
Chinese Presbyterian Church, the registered owners, to rezone 6137 Cambie
Street [PID: 009-300-970; Lot 2 of Lot B, Block 1008, District Lot 526, Plan

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 57
10803] from CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District (12) By-law No. 3907
to a new CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 0.635 to 3.08 and the height from 9.1 m (30 ft.) to 25.6
m (84 ft.) to permit the development of a seven-storey mixed-use building with
a replacement church, private childcare and 20 for-profit affordable rental
housing units, be referred to a Public Hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by GBL Architecture Inc., received on
December 21, 2016;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
6137 Cambie Street (Chinese Presbyterian Church)”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-
noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle this rezoning and
the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6137 Cambie Street
(Chinese Presbyterian Church)”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By law for enactment, after the
Housing Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property owner(s)
and their mortgagee(s) prior to enactment of the CD-1 By law contemplated by
the above-noted report.
C. THAT, subject to referral of the rezoning application to Public Hearing, the
following consequential amending by-laws be referred to Public Hearing:
(i) repeal CD-1 (12) By-law No. 3907 and By-law No. 5258,
(ii) amend CD-1 (388) By-law No. 8016 and CD-1 (391) By-law No. 8044, and
(iii) a by-law to revise CD-1 (12) by-law provisions;
generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6137 Cambie Street (Chinese Presbyterian Church)”,
be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-laws generally in accordance with Appendix C of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 58
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditures or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2131)
7. East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan – Development Phasing Amendment
July 14, 2017
A. THAT the application by Park Lane River District Developments Ltd (Wesgroup
Properties) to amend the East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan By-Law
No. 9393 be referred to Public Hearing.
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated July 14, 2017, entitled “East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan –
Development Phasing Amendment”, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on part of the City; and
expenditure of funds or incurred costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
ii. THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact any by-law; and
iii. THAT the City, all of its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
of discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2132)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 59
8. 2017 Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions
July 11, 2017
THAT Council approve the 2017 inflationary rate adjustments for Density Bonus
Contributions available in certain zoning districts, and instruct the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability to make application to amend the Zoning
and Development By-law to increase the values of the affordable housing shares and
the amenity shares in the RM-8 and RM-8N Districts Schedule and in the RM-9, RM-9A,
RM-9N, RM-9AN, and RM-9BN Districts Schedule, generally in accordance with
Schedule A of the Policy Report dated July 11, 2017, entitled “2017 Inflationary Rate
Adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions”, and that the application be referred to a
public hearing.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the amending
by-law, generally in accordance with the above-noted Schedule A, for consideration at
public hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2133)
9. Heritage Density Bank Update and Zoning Amendments to Support Heritage
Conservation
July 13, 2017
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law
No. 3875 generally as outlined in Appendix A to support heritage conservation
by amending the C-3A, C-5, C-5A, C-6, RM-5, RM-5A, RM-5B, RM-5C, RM-5D
Zoning District Schedules to allow increases to the permitted floor area up to a
maximum of 10 percent to be available through amenity shares for heritage
conservation.
And that the application be referred to a public hearing.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated July 13, 2017, entitled “Heritage Density Bank Update and
Zoning Amendments to Support Heritage Conservation” for consideration at
public hearing.
B. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Downtown Official Development
Plan generally as outlined in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated
July 13, 2017, entitled “Heritage Density Bank Update and Zoning Amendments
to Support Heritage Conservation” to support heritage conservation to allow
increases to the permitted floor area up to a maximum of 10 percent to be
available through amenity shares for heritage conservation.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 60
And that the application be referred to a public hearing.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
above-noted report for consideration at public hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 2134)
BY-LAWS
Councillor Reimer advised she had reviewed the proceedings in relation to By-laws 5 and 6,
and she would therefore be voting on the enactments.
Councillor Louie advised he had reviewed the proceedings in relation to By-laws 11, 12 and
17, and he would therefore be voting on the enactments.
Councillor Affleck advised he had reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 17, and he
would therefore be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 21 inclusive, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to authorize the amendment of a Heritage Revitalization Agreement
Authorized by By-law No. 10988 (1451 Angus Drive – Reifel Residence)
(By-law No. 11860)
2. A By-law to amend the Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (753 Seymour Street and
650 West Georgia Street) (By-law No. 11861)
3. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Districts Parking
requirements (CD-1 District Parking requirements, 753 Seymour Street and
650 West Georgia Street) (By-law No. 11862)
4. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 6510 (753 Seymour Street and 650 West Georgia
Street (By-law No. 11863)
(Mayor Robertson ineligible for the vote)
5. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to CD-1
(101 East 2nd Avenue) (By-law No. 11864)
(Councillor Jang and Mayor Robertson ineligible for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 61
6. A By-law to amend Southeast False Creek Official Development Plan By-law No. 9073
(Southeast False Creek ODP Re: Southeast False Creek Area 3C, 101 East 2nd Avenue)
(By-law No. 11865)
(Councillor Jang and Mayor Robertson ineligible for the vote)
7. A By-law to amend Parking Meter By-law No. 2952 regarding electric vehicle charging
stations (By-law No. 11866)
8. A By-law to amend License By-law No. 4450 regarding miscellaneous liquor issues
(By-law No. 11867)
9. A By-law to amend CD-1 (633) By-law No. 11577 (620 Cardero Street - formerly
1575 West Georgia Street)) (By-law No. 11868)
10. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1037 West King Edward Avenue
(By-law No. 11869)
11. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to CD-1
(2720 East 48th Avenue (6465 Vivian Street)) (By-law No. 11870)
12. A By-law to amend CD-1 (7A) By-law No. 3869 (2691 East 49th Avenue and
2720 East 48th Avenue, Re: 6465 Vivian Street) (By-law No. 11871)
13. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (604 East
23rd Avenue, Mitchell Residence) (By-law No. 11872)
14. A By-law to authorize Council entering into a Heritage Revitalization Agreement with
the Owner of Heritage Property (604 East 23rd Avenue, Mitchell Residence)
(By-law No. 11873)
15. A By-law to authorize the amendment of a Rental 100 Housing and Building Use
Agreement Authorized by By-law No. 11522 (2312-2328 Galt Street) (By-law No. 11874)
16. A By-law to amend Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 regarding parking regulations
(By-law No. 11875)
17. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to CD-1
(305 West 41st Avenue (Oakridge United Church)) (By-law No. 11876)
(Councillor Reimer ineligible for the vote)
18. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3595 Kingsway (Social Housing)
(By-law No. 11877)
19. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3595 Kingsway (For Profit Affordable
Rental Housing) (By-law No. 11878)
20. A By-law to repeal Sign By-law No. 6510 and to enact a new Sign By-law (Sign By-law)
(By-law No. 11879)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 62
21. A By-law to enact the Sign Fee By-law (By-law No. 11880)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development – 1335 Howe Street
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1335 Howe Street
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DE420124., prepared by IBI Group Architects, and stamped “Received, Community
Services, Development Services”, on February 24, 2017, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Approval of Form of Development – 601 West Hastings Street
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 601 West Hastings
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DE419113., prepared by B+H Architects, and stamped “Received, Community
Services, Development Services”, on June 21, 2016, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Approval of Form of Development – 6465 Vivian Street
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 2720 East 48th
Avenue (6465 Vivian Street being the application address) be approved generally as
illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2017-00283., prepared by
NDSA Architects, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development
Services”, on June 30, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may impose

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 63
conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the
development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Approval of Form of Development – 101 East 2nd Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 101 East 2nd
Avenue be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2016-00279, prepared by Proscenium Architecture + Interiors Inc., and stamped
“Received, Community Services, Development Services”, on March 1, 2017, provided
that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Proposed Closure of a Portion of Dunbar Adjacent to 4295 Dunbar Street
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is the owner of all the streets and lanes lying within the
limits of the City of Vancouver;
2. Portions of the building constructed on Air Space Parcel 1 Air Space Plan
EPP63885 (“Air Space Parcel 1”), and Lot A Plan EPP44071, Except: Air Space
Plan EPP63885 (“Remainder Lot A”), Both of Block 82 District Lot 2027 Group 1
New Westminster District, encroach onto Dunbar Street;
3. The portion of Dunbar Street which is encroached upon, abutting said Air Space
Parcel 1 and said Remainder Lot A, was dedicated by the deposit of Plan
EPP44071;
4. To provide for the registration of an easement to contain the said
encroachments onto Dunbar Street, as required by Section 244 of the Strata
Property Act, it is necessary to raise title to the portion of Dunbar Street that
is encroached upon;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 64
5. To enable Council to grant the required easement to contain the said
encroachments, it is necessary for Council to close and stop-up the volumetric
portion of Dunbar Street that is encroached upon;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Director of Legal Services be authorized to
make application on behalf of the City of Vancouver to raise title in the name of the
City of Vancouver to that portion of road dedicated by the deposit of Plan EPP44071
and included within the heavy bold outline on the Reference Plan, Plan EPP69406,
completed and checked by Mike Shaw, B.C.L.S., on the 30th day of June, 2017, and
numbered File: 30927-23_R4, a reduced copy of which is attached hereto as Appendix
A; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT all that volumetric portion of Dunbar Street included
within heavy bold outline and illustrated isometrically on the Explanatory Plan, Plan
EPP69407, completed and checked by Mike Shaw, B.C.L.S., on the 30th day of June,
2017, and numbered File: 30927-24_R4, a reduced copy of which is attached hereto as
Appendix B, be closed, stopped-up and that an easement be granted to the owner of
abutting Air Space Parcel 1 Block 82 District Lot 2027 Group 1 New Westminster
District Air Space Plan EPP63885 to contain the portions of the existing building which
encroach onto Dunbar Street; the said easement to be to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
B. Motions on Notice
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor
SECONDED by Councillor
THAT Councillor Deal be granted Leave of Absence for personal reasons from any
meetings to take place on Thursday, July 27, 2017.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 2142)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 65
2. Replacing Market Rents with Rents Tied to Income in Vancouver’s DCL By-law
The following motion contains amendments to the original Motion on Notice, which were
accepted by the mover.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. For the last three years Vancouver has been creating new housing supply at a
record rate, yet Vancouver’s housing affordability crisis continues to escalate,
with almost 50,000 renter households estimated to have spent more than 30%
of their household income on housing in 2016;
2. The Vancouver Housing and Homelessness Strategy Reset passed by Council on
March 29, 2017 states that the City will change business practices and connect
new and existing housing supply to local residents’ incomes, family size and
location;
3. Vancouver’s Development Cost Levy (DCL) Bylaw authorizes waiver of
development levies in exchange for delivery of new affordable rental housing
using maximum “affordable for-profit market rents” as the criteria, with
different maximum rents for Vancouver’s east-side and west-side, and
specifically for 2017 for Vancouver’s east-side: $1,360 per month for studio
units, $1,747 per month for one bedroom units, $2,308 per month for two
bedroom units and $3,030 per month for three bedroom units;
4. The affordability criteria of a household not spending more than 30% of their
income on housing means that a rent of $1,747 per month for a one bedroom
unit on Vancouver’s east side is affordable for households with an annual
income of $69,880 — an income that is 68% higher than the median Vancouver
renter’s household income of $41,433 (source: Metro Vancouver Housing Data
Book, updated July 2017).
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT City Council direct staff to conduct the necessary
research including financial feasibility and testing, and report back to Council on any
potential changes to the DCL Bylaw’s section on waivers for new for-profit affordable
rental housing, as part of efforts to reflect the new Vancouver Housing Strategy’s
connection of affordability to local residents’ incomes, family size and location.
carried
The Mayor noted that requests to speak to this motion had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 66
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities meeting on Wednesday, July 26, 2017, in order to hear from speakers.
LOST (Vote No. 2139)
(Councillors Carr, Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and the Mayor opposed)
The referral motion having lost, the motion, as amended by the Council during discussion,
was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 2140)
NEW BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted Leave of Absence for personal reasons from the
Public Hearing back-up on Tuesday, July 25, 2017.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 2143)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Information Regarding City Initiatives and Announcements
Councillor Carr enquired about recent announcements in the media from the Mayor
concerning a rental housing pilot project and asked for clarification from staff as to how
information on new initiatives and projects such as this may be found or obtained by all
Council members prior to any media announcements.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 4:04 pm.
* * * * *