PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 20, 2017
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday, July 20, 2017, at 6:10 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, to consider amendments to the zoning and
development and sign by-laws.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Councillor Kerry Jang (Leave of Absence)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Janice MacKenzie
Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
Mayor Robertson acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary for
Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to comply
with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be put to a
vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson, and Mayor
Robertson opposed)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, July 20, 2017 2
1. REZONING: 500-650 West 57th Avenue (Pearson Dogwood)
An application by IBI Group Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 500-650 West 57th Avenue from RT-2 (Two-Family Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the
development of a mixed-used development comprising approximately
2,700 residential units including 540 affordable housing units; approximately
114 Pearson supportive units; 12,196 sq. m (131,281 sq. ft.) of commercial
space; 19,835 sq. m (213,514 sq. ft.) of health related facilities including a
community health centre and complex residential care facility; a 69-space
childcare; a new adult day centre; a 2.5-acre public park; and a 1.0-acre
urban farm. A height of 91.0 metres (299 feet) and a floor space ratio (FSR)
of 2.83 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memo from the Assistant Director of Planning, Vancouver South,
which proposed changes to two Conditions of Approval of the Form of Development in the
Summary and Recommendations, as follows (amended text is in bold):
26. Design and construct the social housing in line with the City’s Housing, Design and
Technical Guidelines, including the requirement to deliver a minimum of 5% of units
within each social housing building or parcel as wheelchair accessible.
Note to applicant: Applicant to work with City staff to agree the location and unit type
for the accessible units. Applicant to work with City and PwDAC to explore potential
and design requirements to achieve 50% of the social housing as accessible for 50%
of the accessible social housing units to be suitable for power wheelchairs.
28. Ensure no less than 5% of the market housing units in each phase are designed to be
wheelchair accessible.
Note to applicant: Applicant to work with City and PwDAC to explore potential and
design requirements for 50% of the accessible social housing accessible market units
to be suitable for power wheelchairs.
Staff Opening Comments
Susan Haid, Assistant Director of Planning, Vancouver South, and Graham Winterbottom,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the application and along with
John Turecki and Neal Peacocke, both from Engineering Services, responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Bob Chapman, Director, Residential Care and Assisted Living, Vancouver Coastal Health, and
Sian Roberts, Clinical Practice Specialist, Vancouver Coastal Health, presented the model of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, July 20, 2017 3
care and health aspects proposed, and provided an overview of the engagement with Pearson
residents and families throughout the application process, and responded to questions.
Jamie Vaughan, Onni Group, noted development team members were present to respond to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 24 emails opposed to the application
• 2 emails in support of the application
• 2 emails related to other aspects of the application
• One petition with 55 signatures from current George Pearson residents, in support of the
housing designs and model of care framework proposed by Vancouver Coastal Health and
set out in the application.
• One letter and associated reports from the George Pearson Resident Council Working
Group on redevelopment, noting concerns with some aspects of the proposed housing
and supports model.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support or conditional support of the application, but noted concerns
with transportation, the uncertain status of the pool, and the need for larger group homes in
the development for those who want more choice in where and how they live:
Colleen McGuinness, Chair, Seniors Advisory Committee
Cathy Browne, Co-Chair, Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee
Michael Stermer, George Pearson Centre Resident Council Working Group on
Redevelopment
Vu Nguyen, George Pearson Centre Resident
Hansu Siirala, George Pearson Centre Resident
Kim Teoli, George Pearson Centre Resident (video submission)
Pat McLarty, George Pearson Centre Resident (video submission)
Christopher Hamilton, George Pearson Centre Resident (video submission)
Rochelle Stull, George Pearson Centre Resident (video submission)
Earl Huff, George Pearson Centre Resident (video submission)
Paul Gauthier
Jane Dyson, Executive Director, Disability Alliance of BC
Marjorie Ross
Jen Rashleigh, Farmers on 57th

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, July 20, 2017 4
The following spoke in opposition to the application, noting concerns with the status of the pool
redevelopment, access to transit, the proposed model of care, and traffic congestion in the
area:
Paul Caune, Civil Rights Now! (video submission)
Mary-Jo Fetterly
Mark Stockbrocks
Mike Burdick, Marpole Residents’ Coalition
William O’Brien
Janet Fraser
Wing Wong
The following spoke about concerns regarding the uncertain status of the pool redevelopment
and the need for more services at and availability of the pool after redevelopment:
Sydney Spraggs
Andrea Maitland
Mary Ann Moffat-Meder
Richard Juren
Bonnie Friesen
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers at 10 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT the length of the meeting be extended to finish hearing from speakers and
close the receipt of public comments.
B. THAT discussion, debate, and decision be referred to the Regular Council meeting
on Tuesday, July 25, 2017, as Unfinished Business, starting at 2 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02118)
* * * * *
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:14 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Mr. Winterbottom noted many of the issues heard from speakers tonight are consistent with
what staff have heard regarding transit access, public benefits, the delivery and function of the
pool, and the proposed housing and care model, and that the conversation has advanced so that
many of the issues will be dealt with.
The Mayor noted questions should be emailed to staff and that staff would respond at the
Regular Council meeting on July 25, 2017.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, July 20, 2017 5
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the Public Hearing be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:17 pm.
* * * * *