PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 11, 2017
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 11, 2017, at 6:05 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary
for Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to
comply with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be
put to a vote and failed by Council.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Robertson in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to zoning by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Affleck, Carr, De Genova, Deal, Jang, Louie, Reimer, Stevenson and
Mayor Robertson opposed)
(Councillor Ball absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 2
1. HERITAGE DESIGNATION AND REVITALIZATION AGREEMENT: 604 East 23rd Avenue
(Mitchell Residence)
An application by Birmingham and Wood Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To designate the exterior of the building at 604 East 23rd Avenue
(Mitchell Residence), which is listed in the ‘B’ evaluation category on the
Vancouver Heritage Register. To enter into a Heritage Revitalization
Agreement to secure the rehabilitation and long-term preservation of the
heritage building, and vary the Zoning and Development By-law, as
necessary, to permit development of the site including infill development
and bonus density, as proposed under Development Permit Application
Number DE419627.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was scheduled to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:10 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, the
by-law to designate the exterior of the Mitchell Residence at 604 East
23rd Avenue [PID: 015-638-561; Lot 1, Block 5, District Lot 301, Plan 187],
which is listed in the ‘B’ evaluation category on the Vancouver Heritage
Register, as protected heritage property.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment pursuant to Section 592 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law for the
City to enter into a Heritage Revitalization Agreement to:
(i) Secure the rehabilitation and long-term preservation of the heritage
building; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 3
(ii) Vary the Zoning and Development By-law as necessary to permit
development of the site, including infill development and bonus
density, as proposed under Development Permit Application Number
DE419627 and as more particularly described in the Policy Report dated
June 26, 2017, entitled “Heritage Designation and Heritage
Revitalization Agreement: 604 East 23rd Avenue (Mitchell Residence)”.
C. THAT the Heritage Revitalization Agreement shall be prepared, completed and
noted, registered, and given priority on title to the site to the satisfaction of
the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design, and Sustainability.
D. THAT, subject to Council’s approval of the heritage designation and the
Heritage Revitalization Agreement discussed in the Policy Report dated
June 26, 2017, entitled “Heritage Designation and Heritage Revitalization
Agreement: 604 East 23rd Avenue (Mitchell Residence)”, Council waive for the
site, for the development as proposed under the DP Application, the
requirements contained in paragraph 3.1 of the Strata Title Policies for RS, RT
and RM Zones, including a condition of development permit approval for new
development on a site that the registered owner is to execute a covenant
which must be registered against title to the property which prohibits
registration of a strata plan.
E. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person nor any obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is
at the risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02104)
2. ZONING AMENDMENT: Enabling Innovative Development with Social Housing -
Amendments to the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan
(DEOD ODP)
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer District (DEOD) Official
Development Plan (ODP) to enable the delivery of priority uses with housing
on corner sites, allow frontage relaxations for 100 per cent social housing

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 4
projects, and include a definition for local economic development use.
These zoning changes help implement the Downtown Eastside Plan and
enable innovative projects and the delivery of social housing.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application and responded to
questions.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 2 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
 3 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Ian Harrison
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Jean Swanson
Paul Allen
Christopher Jay Summers
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:42 pm.
Council Decision
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on the components of the motion.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 5
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT the following amendments to the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer
District Official Development Plan By-law No. 5532, generally as set out in
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled “Enabling
Innovative Development with Social Housing - Amendments to the
Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan (DEOD ODP)”, be
approved:
(i) Include a definition for local economic development use;
(ii) In sub-area 1 (Main and Hastings), enable the development of other
priority uses in combination with social and secured market rental
housing within the current overall maximum density;
(iii) In sub-areas 1, 2, 3, and 4, allow existing priority uses to expand to a
maximum of 1.5 FSR; and
(iv) In sub-areas 1, 2, 3 and 4, introduce a relaxation by the Director of
Planning to the current maximum site width (i.e. site frontage) on the
condition that 100 percent of housing units are social housing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
any person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of
funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the
expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote Nos. 02107 and 02108)
(Councillor Carr opposed to A i, ii and iii)
3. TEXT AMENDMENT: 620 Cardero Street (formerly 1575 West Georgia Street)
An application by Henriquez Partners Architects was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the text of Comprehensive Development (CD-1) District (633)
By-law for 620 Cardero Street (formerly 1575 West Georgia Street) to

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 6
increase the overall floor space ratio from 10.59 to 10.85 and the residential
floor space ratio from 7.86 to 8.15.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council had before it a memorandum dated, July 5, 2017, from the Acting Director of
Planning, Downtown Division, to clarify the explanation of the floor area increase contained
in the Policy Report dated May 2, 2017, titled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 620 Cardero Street
(formerly 1575 West Georgia Street)”. It brought forward the additional recommendation
below to accept the offering of a Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) for this application.
RECOMMENDATION
THAT the following be added as a condition of approval of the CD-1 Text Amendment
application for 620 Cardero Street:
“Pay to the City, prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, the cash Community
Amenity Contribution of $150,000 which the applicant has offered to the City and that
it be allocated towards affordable housing and a 69-space childcare facility to serve
Coal Harbour.”
This recommendation is added after A from the Policy Report noted-above and B is
renumbered as C, as contained in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda for this item with the added condition explained in the memorandum noted-above.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 1 piece of correspondence in support of the application;
 2 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
 1 piece of correspondence related to other matters.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:50 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 7
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Henriquez Partners Architects, on behalf of
1072705 B.C. Ltd. and 1072719 B.C. Ltd. (Bosa Properties), to amend
CD-1 (633) By-law No. 11577 for 620 Cardero Street (formerly
1575 West Georgia Street) [PID 029-884-667; Lot A, Block 42, District Lot 185,
Group 1, New Westminster District and of part of the public harbour of
Burrard Inlet Plan EPP62321] to increase the floor space ratio from 10.59 to
10.85 and the residential floor space ratio from 7.86 to 8.15, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 2, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Text Amendment: 620 Cardero Street (formerly 1575 West Georgia
Street)”, be approved.
B. THAT the following be added as a condition of approval of the CD-1 Text
Amendment application for 620 Cardero Street:
“Pay to the City, prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, the cash Community
Amenity Contribution of $150,000 which the applicant has offered to the City
and that it be allocated towards affordable housing and a 69-space childcare
facility to serve Coal Harbour.”
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02109)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 8
4. REZONING: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society)
An application by Red Door Housing Society was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 870 East 8th Avenue from RM-4 (Multiple Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
seven-storey building containing a total of 51 social housing units. A height
of 21.3 m (69.9 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 2.80 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff reviewed the application.
It was noted a clerical error was made on page 1 of Appendix H of the Policy Report dated
May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society)” and
should be shown as follows, “The Public Benefit Summary - A total of 51 social housing units,
representing 29 net new units.”
Applicant Comments
Dane Jansen, dys architecture, provided opening comments.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since the application was referred to public
hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 47 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
 6 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
 2 petitions in opposition to the application with a total of 55 signatures.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
Scott De Lange Boom
Deanne Ziebart
Susan Snell

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 9
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
Dave Webb
Russ Irish
Ryan Quirico
Anna Szul
Jeff Crompton
Michelle Sangster
John Meier
Jessica McLennan
Gord Risch
Marilyn Hogan
Mullen Buss
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:05 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Graham Plant, Development Coordinator, CPA Development Consultants, provided brief
closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Housing Policy and Projects staff, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff and
Engineering Services staff, responded to questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
A. THAT the application by the Red Door Housing Society to rezone
870 East 8th Avenue [PID: 002-549-140; Lot G, Block 117, District Lot 264A,
Plan 20632] from RM-4 (Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District to increase the floor space ratio from 1.45 to 2.80 and
the maximum building height from 10.7 m (35.1 ft.) to 21.3 m (69.9 ft.) to
permit a seven-storey building with 51 social housing units, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society)”, be approved
subject to the following conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by dys architecture and stamped

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 10
“Received Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, March 22, 2017”,
provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Maximum building height should not exceed 21.3 m.
2. Reduction in the building massing facing St. Catherines Street to
better reflect the scale of the context should be maintained,
with a setback of minimum 29.3 ft. from this street for the floors
above the local height limit of 35.1 ft., and an additional 7.6 ft.
setback of the top storey from the level below.
3. Design development to meet the relevant sections of the
High-Density Housing for Families with Children Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: For more information, see the guidelines at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/H004.pdf
4. Provision of usable private open space for each dwelling units.
Note to Applicant: Dimensions should be commensurate to unit
size.
5. Provision of bulk storage units for each dwelling units.
Note to Applicant: Consider repurposing amenity space on Levels
2 and 3 into storage space for units without in-suite storage.
6. Design development to mitigate privacy and overlook towards
existing residents.
Note to Applicant: This can be accomplished by further
development of landscape drawings, enlarged sections, and
other drawings to illustrate specific built features such as
translucent guards on balconies that face other residential
properties, taller plantings or similar features.
7. Design development to improve accessibility of site circulation.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 11
Note to Applicant: Design development to eliminate the steps to
urban agriculture and garbage area and provide Universal Access
in site circulation.
8. Consideration to provide bird friendly strategy for the design of
the building with development permit application.
Note to Applicant: Strategy should identify any particular risks
with regard to the Bird Friendly Design Guidelines and propose
design features or to reduce these risks. For more information,
see the guidelines at
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntB.pdf
9. The proposed unit mix, including one studio unit (2 percent),
19 one-bedroom units (37 percent), 7 two-bedroom units
(14 percent), and 24 three-bedroom units (47 percent), is to be
included in the Development Permit drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 35 percent of the dwelling units
designed to be suitable for families with children.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
10. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcove and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Sustainability
11. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the
Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings, including at a minimum: a
Gold rating if using LEED for Homes Midrise, 1 point each for
water efficiency and stormwater management, and a 22 percent
reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010;
along with registration and application for certification of the
project.
Note to Applicant: Submit a LEED® checklist and a sustainable
design strategy outlining how the proposed points will be
achieved, along with a receipt including registration number
from the CaGBC, as a part of the Development Permit

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 12
Application. The checklist and the strategy should be
incorporated into the drawing set. A letter from an accredited
professional confirming that the building has been designed to
meet the policy and application for certification of the project
will also be required under the policy.
Landscape Design
12. Design development to enhance presentation to the
neighbourhood by providing a softer streetscape edge along
East 8th Avenue and St. Catherines Street.
Note to Applicant: The landscape plan should be better
developed to increase buffering and blend with the neighbouring
landscape. The northeast corner planter walls should be deleted
and grades should be dropped to meet site grades. Large,
full-scale deciduous trees of minimum 8 cm calliper should be
accommodated along both East 8th Avenue and St. Catherines
Street, with a minimum of 1 m wide planting allowance on
grade. This will require revisions to the parkade with the
possibility of losing parking spaces and relocation of water utility
room and storage lockers. Wider planting beds should
accommodate larger plants, providing a clear, public/private
transition.
13. Design development to expand programming by providing a
usable common roof deck amenity space.
14. Design development to grades, retaining walls, walkways and
structural design, such as underground parking, to maximize soil
volumes (exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard) to accommodate
new and existing trees and landscaping:
Note to Applicant: Wherever possible, take advantage of natural
soils and the water table by locating new trees at grade beyond
the edge of the underground slab. To avoid raised planters above
grade, angle the corner of the underground slab downward
(1 m across and 1.2 m) to maximize contiguous soil volumes.
Planted landscapes on slab should be designed to maximize soil
depths by lowering the slab, wherever possible, or providing tree
wells, if necessary.
15. Design development to location of utilities.
Note to Applicant: Avoid the awkward placement of utilities (pad
mounted transformers, “Vista” junctions, underground venting)
visible to the public realm. Where utilities must be located near
a street or sidewalk, a secondary circulation route is the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 13
preferred location. Every effort should be made to integrate
utility access into structures and behind lockable, decorative
gates or screened with landscaping.
16. Design development to ensure locations of hydro kiosks in areas
screened by soft landscape, or in internal mechanical room. Any
other emergency generators, transformers or gas meters to be
located, integrated, and fully screened in a manner which
minimizes their impact on the architectural expression and the
building’s open space and public realm.
17. Provision of further arboricultural information, as follows:
(i) A Letter of Assurance for arborist supervision during any
excavation into the Critical Root Zones of retained trees,
or any work in proximity to retained trees which may
cause root damage to retained trees. The letter should be
signed and dated by arborist, owner and contractor.
(ii) An updated arborist report, to discuss in detail methods
of safe protection, for retained trees, in context of
proposed footprint, grades and other site constraints.
Report to include a scaled and dimensioned tree
protection plan and Critical Root Zones. Confirmation of
safe tree protection is required.
18. Consideration to explore design options that respect the City of
Vancouver Bird Friendly Design Guidelines
Note to Applicant:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntB.pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntC.pdf
19. Provision of a pedestrian-friendly experience at the lane edges
by the use of down lighting and more substantial planting at
grade.
Note to Applicant: The lane edge planting should be protected
from vehicles by an 8 in. high curb.
20. Provision of maximized tree growing medium and planting depths
for tree and shrub planters to ensure long term viability of the
landscape.
Note to Applicant: Underground parking slabs and retaining walls
may need to be altered to provide adequate depth and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 14
continuous soil volumes. Growing mediums and planting depths
should be to BCSLA standards or better.
21. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible
plants, in addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as
part of the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should
reference and be designed to adhere to Council’s Urban
Agriculture Guidelines for the Private Realm and should provide
maximum solar exposure, universal accessibility and provided
with amenities such as, raised beds, water for irrigation, potting
bench, tool storage and composting.
22. At time of development permit application:
(i) A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be
submitted. The Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed
plant materials (with common and botanical names, plant
sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings, light
fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant
material should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly
keyed to the Landscape Plan. The Landscape Plan should
be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
(ii) Provision of section details at a minimum scale of
1/4”=1’-0” scale to illustrate typical proposed landscape
elements including planters on structures, benches,
fences, gates, arbours and trellises, and other features.
Planter section details must confirm depth of proposed
planting on structures is deep enough to accommodate
rootballs of proposed trees well into the future.
(iii) Provision of sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the
buildings to public realm interface facing the street,
confirming a delineated private to public transition of
spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building
façade, as well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails,
fences and planters. The location of the underground
parking slab should be included in the section.
(iv) Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen
lane edge gas meters and parking garage vents in a
manner which minimizes their impact on the
architectural expression and the project’s open space and
public realm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 15
(v) New proposed street trees should be noted “Final
species, quantity and spacing to the approval of City
Engineer and Park Board”. Contact Eileen Curran
(604-871-6131) of Engineering Streets Division regarding
street tree spacing and quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford
(604-257-8587) of Park Board regarding tree species.
(vi) A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be
provided for all planters on parkade slab and minimum of
hose bibs to be provided for landscape on grade.
(vii) A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security
purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the
landscape drawings; all existing light poles should be
shown.
(viii) Trellis and vines to be provided over the underground
garage access ramp.
Engineering
23. Confirmation that automatic door openers providing for access to
the bicycle room(s) are on all doors along the route leading from
the bicycle rooms to the outside.
24. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The following items are required to meet
provisions of the Parking By-law and the Parking and Loading
Design Supplement:
(i) Provision of additional design elevations throughout the
parking layout and at all entrances.
(ii) Provision of modification of the parking ramp design to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services as follows:
a. Show turn swathes on the drawing demonstrating
two-way flow through the jug handle curve of the
parkade entrance.
Note to Applicant: You may need to provide a
corner cut at IBG 100.13’ on the inside radius or a

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 16
larger jug handle with additional width to
accommodate two way vehicle flow.
b. Ensure that the overall change in slope of the
ramp through the jug handle curve at elevation
99’10” does not exceed 12.5 percent.
Note to Applicant: From elevation 97.41” to
99.83”, the ramp slopes up at 6.7 percent. The
change in slope at elevation 99’ 10” is 17 percent.
Consider providing a 5 percent crossfall at
elevation 99’10” from the south to the north to
achieve an overall 12.5 percent change in slope.
c. Modify elevations on the main ramp from
elevation 98’ 11/2” to elevation 90’-03/4” to
reduce crossfall of the ramp to 5 percent or less.
Note to Applicant: Provide a maximum slope of
15 percent on the inside edge for this section and
adjust center and outside elevations accordingly.
d. Provision of parabolic mirrors at the top, bottom
and the 90 degree corner of the main ramp for
improved visibility.
e. Provision of a section drawing showing elevations,
vertical clearances, and the security gate for the
main ramp.
f. Label the minimum clearance for parking levels on
the section drawings, including overhead gate and
mechanical projections.
g. Remove the note and dashed line regarding Class
A bicycle secondary access using the stairs and a
wheel ramp to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: Engineering does not support
the use of stairs and a wheel ramp. The parking
ramp is to be used as a secondary access.
(iii) Bicycle elevator internal chamber dimensions to be
minimum 2051 mm width by 1683 mm depth to
accommodate two cyclists at a time.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 17
(iv) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s) and on all doors for bicycles
to reach outside. Label on drawings.
25. Delete portions of pavers and special sidewalk treatments shown
between the City sidewalks and property lines and show standard
concrete connector walks.
Note to Applicant: Street tree location may be preferred behind
the sidewalks and thus be in conflict with the on-site tree
locations. Please review and adjust as needed.
Housing Policy and Projects
26. Provision of the completed Tenant Relocation Application Form
which includes a list outlining the name of each tenant, the
number of the tenant’s unit, the size of unit, the type of unit,
and their rent, as per Section 6.1(a) of the Tenant Relocation
and Protection Guidelines.
Note to Applicant: An updated list of tenants must be submitted
at the time of development permit application.
27. Provision of a letter stating the property address and legal
description of the site, and providing the names and mailing
addresses of all tenants.
28. Provision of a notarized declaration to be submitted prior to
issuance of a development permit which demonstrates that each
tenant has been given written notice of the intent to redevelop
the property; that indicates the number of units occupied on the
date of the notice; includes information on posting of notice
regarding the intent to redevelop as per Section 6.1(c); and
includes copies of a letter addressed to each tenant summarizing
the Tenant Relocation Plan offer and signed as received by each
tenant.
29. Provision of a final Tenant Relocation Report to be submitted
prior to issuance of the occupancy permit which outlines the
names of tenants; indicates the outcome of their search for
alternate accommodation; summarizes the total monetary value
given to each tenant (moving costs, rent, any other
compensation); and includes a summary of all communication
provided to the tenants.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 18
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services, the Managing Director of
Cultural Services, the General Manager of Community Services, and the
Approving Officer, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Release of Easement & Indemnity Agreement P14987-8
(underground anchor rods within the lane) prior to building
occupancy. Compliance with encroachment by-law #4243 is
required.
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to
zoning enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an
occupancy permit for the site. Provision of a letter of
commitment will satisfactorily address this condition.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services is provided.
(i) Provision of new concrete curb and gutter, new curb
ramps and curb return at the 8th Avenue and
St. Catherines Street corner of the site and asphalt
pavement to centerline of St. Catherines Street adjacent
the site including adjustment of all utilities and existing
infrastructure to accommodate the road work.
(ii) Provision of a concrete lane crossing and new curb
returns on both sides of the lane entry at the lane south
of 8th Avenue on the west side of St. Catherines Street.
(iii) Provision of street trees adjacent the site where space
permits.
(iv) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 19
demands, including sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and
domestic water demand as determined by the applicant’s
mechanical consultant to assess if water system
upgrading is required. Should upgrading be necessary
then arrangements to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100 percent
of any water system upgrading that may be required.
Note to Applicant: Confirmation of the water meter
location on P1 or at grade is required. Retain current
location of storm and sanitary service connections. An
interconnected water service will be required for this
development.
3. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted
transformers and kiosks (including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be
located on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features. There will be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch. The applicant may be required to show details of how
the site will be provided with all services being underground.
Housing Policy and Projects
4. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter
into a Housing Agreement securing all residential units as social
housing, for the longer of 60 years and the life of the building,
subject to the following additional conditions:
(i) a no separate-sales covenant;
(ii) a no stratification covenant;
(iii) that none of such units will be rented for less than one
month at a time;
(iv) that a minimum of 22 units (43 percent) are occupied by
households with incomes below the housing income limits
as set out in the current “Housing Income Limits (HILS)”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 20
table published by the British Columbia Housing
Management Commission or equivalent publication, at a
rent which is no more than 30 percent of household
income, and meets all other applicable preconditions in
order to comply with the development cost levy
exemption provisions for social housing under the
Vancouver Charter;
(v) compliance with the City approved Tenant Relocation
Plan, including provision of a final Tenant Relocation
Report prior to issuance of the occupancy permit; and
(vi) such other terms and conditions as the General Manager
of Community Services and the Director of Legal Services
may in their sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: This condition will be secured by a Housing
Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted
pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
Soils
5. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to the Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 21
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registered
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as are considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-law.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, and letters of credit, and
provide for the withholding of permits, as deemed appropriate by, and
in the form and content satisfactory to, the Director of Legal Services.
D. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated May 30, 2017,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society)”, the
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been
agreed to and signed by the property owner and their mortgagee(s) and prior to
enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by this report.
E. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing
Society)”.
F. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(a) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(b) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(c) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02110)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 22
5. REZONING: 4138 Cambie Street
An application by Pennyfarthing Hillcrest Developments Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 4138 Cambie Street from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a
six-storey residential building and 2 two-storey townhouses containing a
total of 22 dwelling units. A height of 20.5 m (67 ft.) and a floor space ratio
(FSR) of 2.31 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval,
subject to the conditions set out in the Summary and Recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received on this application since it was referred to public hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:31 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
A. THAT the application by Pennyfarthing Hillcrest Developments Ltd. on behalf of
Yuk Ying Ng, the registered owner, to rezone 4138 Cambie Street
[PID 010-949-020; Lot 2, Block 681, District Lot 526, Plan 6212] from RS-1
(One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District,
to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.31 and the height from
10.7 (35 ft.) to 20.5 m (67 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey
residential development, containing a total of 22 dwelling units, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated May 30, 2017 entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 4138 Cambie Street”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the prepared form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by Raymond Letkeman Architects Inc.,
on behalf of Pennyfarthing Hillcrest Developments Ltd., and stamped

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 23
“Received Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability,
September 28, 2016”, provided that the Director of Planning may
allow minor alterations to this form of development when approving
the detailed scheme of development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard for the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to provide improved common amenity
space.
Note to Applicant: Common indoor and outdoor amenity space
should be provided suitable to the project size, and number and
type of units. Common outdoor space should include children’s
play space. It is recommended that common outdoor space be
provided at the courtyard. For more information, refer to the
High-Density Housing for Families with Children Guidelines.
2. Design development to provide a green roof in keeping with the
expectations of the Planning By-Law Administration Bulletin
Roof-mounted Energy Technologies and Green Roofs.
Note to Applicant: Common outdoor space may also be provided
at the roof top.
Note to Applicant: The height of the guard rails above the sixth
storey may be relaxed if a substantial portion of the roof is a
green roof (minimum of 25 percent of the roof area for an
intensive green roof and 50 percent for an extensive green roof).
3. Design development to provide an enhanced lane edge
treatment in keeping with the expectations of the Cambie
Corridor Plan.
Note to Applicant: The proposed 5 ft. setback is supported. Lane
edge planting, planter walls, and walkways should provide
texture, lighting, and detailing that promotes a pleasant walking
environment in the lane. Refer to the Cambie Corridor Plan,
Section 6.4, Public Realm: Streets and Lanes.
4. Design development to maintain a high quality architectural
design at the development permit stage.
Note to Applicant: Brick cladding should be incorporated at the
side elevations for a more cohesive, high quality expression.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 24
5. The proposed unit mix, including one studio unit (5 percent),
15 two-bedroom units (68 percent), and six three-bedroom units
(27 percent), is to be included in the Development Permit
drawings.
Note to Applicant: Any changes in the unit mix from the rezoning
application may only be varied under the discretion of the
Director of Planning or Development Permit Board provided that
it does not go lower than 25 percent two-bedroom and
10 percent three-bedroom units.
Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
6. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having
particular regard for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Landscape Design
7. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan illustrating soft and hard
landscape treatment.
Note to Applicant: Plant material should be clearly illustrated on
the Landscape Plan and keyed to a standard Plant List. The
Landscape Plan should include all exterior hard and soft surface
elements (site furniture, gates, fences, surfaces, screens, walls),
the public realm treatment (to the curb) and all existing or
proposed street trees, adjoining landscaping/grades and public
utilities such as lamp posts, hydro poles, fire hydrants.
8. Provision of a Tree Plan.
Note to Applicant: Provide a Tree Plan that is separate from the
Landscape Plan and consistent with the survey and arborist
report. The scaled plan should be accurate and clearly illustrate
all trees to be removed and retained, including offsite trees and
any necessary tree protection barriers. Tree replacements can
be shown on the proposed landscape planting plans.
9. Illustration of measures that support integrated rainwater
management, including absorbent landscapes, soil volumes and
detention technology.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 25
Note to Applicant: A brief written rationale should be provided
to describe the rainwater management strategy.
10. Provision of large scale, dimensioned, landscape sections
[typical] through planted areas.
Note to Applicant: The sections should include the planter
materials, tree stem, canopy and root ball including the
slab-patio-planter relationship, the lane interface, common
areas and upper patios.
11. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
individual hose bibs for all private patios of 100 sq. ft.
(9.29 sq. m) or larger.
Note to Applicant: Provide a separate partial irrigation plan
(one sheet size only) that illustrates symbols for hose bib and
stub out locations. There should be accompanying written notes
on the same plan and/or landscape plan describing the intent
and/or standards of irrigation.
12. Design development to integrate the architecture, grades,
retaining walls, walkways and structural elements, such as
underground parking, to provide maximum plant growing depth
(exceed BCLNA Landscape Standard).
Note to Applicant: Variations in the slab may be required in
combination with appropriate growing medium. In the horizontal
plane, soils should be contiguous wherever possible. To
accommodate trees in planters near property lines, the
underground parking to angle downward at the corner (1 m
across and 1.2 m downward).
13. Provision of high efficiency irrigation for all planted areas and
hose bibs for all patios and common areas greater than
100 sq. ft.
14. Coordination with the south neighbor regarding the proposed
removal of tree #51.
Note to Applicant: The removal of tree #51 will be necessary to
facilitate the form of development. However, the tree may be
shared with the south property. A neighbor consent letter should
be provided. In the event that a neighbor consent letter cannot
be provided and the tree is verified to be legally shared, the
tree will need to be retained.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 26
15. Design development to locate site utilities and vents
onto private property and integrate discreetly into the building,
avoiding landscaped and common areas.
Note to Applicant: This includes the exploration of opportunities
to screen the pad mounted transformer at the lane with a trellis
and gates. Further coordination with BC Hydro will be necessary.
16. Consideration to incorporate the principles of the City of
Vancouver Bird-Friendly Design Guidelines for the protection,
enhancement and creation of bird habitat and to reduce
potential threats to birds in the City.
Note to Applicant: For more information, refer to the guidelines
at:
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntB.pdf
http://council.vancouver.ca/20150120/documents/rr1attachme
ntC.pdf
Sustainability
17. Provision of a Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction, for the demolition of existing
buildings on site, to recycle/reuse at least 75 percent of
demolition waste (excluding hazardous materials).
Note to Applicant: The Recycling and Reuse Plan for Green
Demolition/Deconstruction should be provided at the time of
development permit application.
18. All new buildings in the development will meet the requirements
of the preceding Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings (as
amended up to January 14, 2016), including a minimum of
63 points (LEED® Gold rating), with 1 point for water efficiency
and stormwater management and a 22 percent reduction in
energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, along with
registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits. The
strategy, along with the LEED checklist, must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 27
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
19. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 18, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings (amended February 7, 2017),
including all requirements for Near Zero Emissions Buildings
(i.e. Passive House certified or alternate near zero emissions
standard approved by the Director of Sustainability), or Low
Emissions Green Buildings. The requirements for Low Emissions
Green Buildings are summarized at
http://guidelines.vancouver.ca/G015.pdf.
Note to Applicant: The applicant will be required to demonstrate
that the development is on track to achieve the above
requirements at each stage of permit. For more detail on the
above requirements and what must be submitted at each stage,
refer to the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings – Process and
Requirements (amended April 28, 2017 or later).
Engineering
20. This site is to provide independent garbage storage and pick up.
A single point of access to garbage in multiple parkades breaches
the security provisions of typical parkade design. Pick up
operations do not rely on bins being stored on the street or lane
for pick up. Bins are to be returned to storage areas immediately
after emptying. If this cannot be confirmed then on-site, at
grade bin storage will be required.
21. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to
acquire the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a
mitigation plan to minimize street use during excavation &
construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or sourcing
adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that
a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection
/removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
22. Provision of the following note on the landscape plan:
“A landscape plan is to be submitted for review to Engineering
Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public
property may begin until such plans receive “For Construction”
approval and related permits are issued. Please contact
Kevin Cavell at 604.873.7773 for details.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 28
23. Delete concrete connector sidewalks shown extending over the
property line in the lane.
24. Compliance with Section 4.8.4 Required Disability Parking
Spaces of the Parking Bylaw.
Note to Applicant: One additional Disability Parking space shall
be provided on site.
25. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Confirm how residential parking security is to be
maintained as per Section 4.13.5 of the Parking By-law
for this application and the adjacent sites, noting the
comments in condition (b)19 regarding garbage storage.
(ii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of all ramp
sections, at all break points, throughout the parking level
and at all entrances.
(iii) Provision of 7.5 ft. vertical clearance at the overhead
gate to P1 and at knock out panel access to adjacent
property to the north.
(iv) Dimension the vertical clearances of the parking level on
the section drawings and label the minimum vertical
clearance, including at overhead gates and mechanical
projections.
Note to Applicant: Minimum 2.3 m clearance is required
for Class A loading and disability spaces.
(v) Confirm that 2.3 m minimum vertical clearance is
provided from the lane to the Class A loading, Disability
parking and Garbage and Recycling room.
(vi) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp or elevator, if
required.
(vii) Provide automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s).

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 29
Note to Applicant: If mandoors are required at overhead
gates for bicycle access, mandoors are to be incorporated
into the overhead gates to maintain 20 ft. drive aisles.
Technical Analysis
26. Compliance with the Administrative Bulletin Bulk Storage and
In-Suite Storage – Multiple Family Residential Developments.
Note to Applicant: Twelve additional storage lockers shall be
provided. Alternatively, in-suite storage may be provided for
each unit, and up to 40 sq. ft. may be deducted from the floor
area for each unit that contains a bulk storage room. Also,
ensure the two lockers underneath stairs in the parkade comply
with the provisions of the Bulletin in regards to minimum ceiling
height.
27. Notation of the following geodetic heights on the Elevation
Drawings and Section:
(i) top of railing above the sixth storey; and
(ii) top of parapet above the sixth storey.
28. Notation of the Class B Bicycle spaces on the Site Plan.
29. Clarification of the location of the privacy screen as illustrated
on page A401.
Note to Applicant: This screen is not illustrated on the Elevation
Drawings nor the Roof Plan. If it is proposed, it shall be
illustrated on all drawings and its geodetic height shall be noted.
30. Clarification of the use of the roof deck above the sixth storey.
Note to Applicant: Illustrate all architectural and landscape
features on the Roof Plan and the Landscape Plan.
31. Clarification of the information on the FSR Overlays and FSR
Summary.
Note to Applicant: The numbers are blurred and illegible.
32. Provision to delete survey information from the Main Floor Plan.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
33. The proposed approach to site heating and cooling, developed in
collaboration with the City, shall be provided prior to the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 30
issuance of any development permit, to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
34. Design of the development must provide for Neighbourhood
Energy System (NES) compatibility and shall adhere to the
following requirements:
(i) The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system
shall be designed to be easily connectable and
compatible with Neighbourhood Energy to supply all
heating and domestic hot water requirements. Design
provisions related to NES compatibility must be to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall refer to the
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards – Design
Guidelines for general design requirements related to NES
compatibility at the building scale. The applicant is also
encouraged to work closely with City staff during
mechanical design to ensure compatibility with a
neighbourhood-scale system. As a pre-condition to
building permit, a declaration signed by the registered
professional of record certifying that the Neighbourhood
Energy connectivity requirements have been satisfied will
be required.
(ii) Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air
shall be provided by hydronic systems without electric
resistance heat or distributed heat generating equipment
(including but not limited to gas fired make-up air
heaters, heat producing fireplaces, distributed heat
pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
(iii) Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to
be utilized for an energy transfer station connecting the
building(s) to the City-designated NES, as outlined in the
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards Design
Guidelines, at development permit.
(iv) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical
heating system at the building permit stage must be to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
35. In lieu of the requirements outlined in Condition 34, the
applicant may choose to meet the requirements of the Green

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 31
Buildings Policy for Rezonings. Where, at time of development
permit, the applicant chooses to pursue a Near Zero or Low
Emissions Green Building under this policy, the design of the
development shall adhere to the following requirements:
(i) Any gas fueled heating systems, including but not limited
to domestic hot water, will be designed for NES
compatibility to preserve the opportunity to eventually
connect to a future low-carbon NES. The applicant will
refer to Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards –
Design Guidelines for general requirements.
(ii) Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical
heating system at the building permit stage must be to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
Note to Applicant: At the building permit stage, the
applicant will be required to submit final detailed
drawings, signed and sealed by a professional engineer
where necessary, for review by Engineering Services to
confirm technical requirements.
If following requirements of the Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings, the applicant will be required to work in
collaboration with City of Vancouver Sustainability staff
to demonstrate that the development is on track to
achieve the above requirements and what must be
submitted at each stage of permit [see Condition (b)19].
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the
General Manager of Engineering Services and the Approving Officer, as
necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer,
make arrangements for the following:
Engineering Services
1. Provision of a knockout panel and arrangements (legal
agreements) to secure access to underground parking from
within the adjacent development site at 4162 Cambie Street
(Lot A, Block 681, DL 526, Plan EPP59286) will be required.
Similarly, if the proposed vehicle access onto adjacent northerly
Lot 1 via both the subject site and Lot A is supported, then
provision of a knockout panel and arrangements to secure access

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 32
to underground parking within future development on that
northerly property at 4118 Cambie Street (Lot 1, Block 681,
DL 526, Plan 6212) will be required. Confirmation that a secured
parking access corridor can be provided through the site is to be
confirmed.
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on-site and
off-site works and services necessary or incidental to the
servicing of the site (collectively called the “services”) such that
they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for
the services are provided. No development permit for the site
will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(i) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the
details to determine if water main upgrading is required.
Please supply project details including projected fire flow
demands, sprinkler demand, hydrant load, and domestic
water demands to determine if water main upgrading is
required. Should upgrading be necessary then
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager
of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services
will be required to secure payment for the upgrading.
The developer is responsible for 100 percent of any water
system upgrading that may be required.
(ii) Provision of a report or management plan by a registered
professional demonstrating that post development storm
water runoff flowrate will be less than or equal to
current site run-off. Legal arrangements may be required
to ensure on-going operations of certain stormwater
storage systems.
(iii) Provision of street re-construction on Cambie Street
adjacent to the site to generally include:
a. New curb and gutter;
b. 2.5 m (8.2 ft.) wide raised protected bike lane;
c. 1.83 m (6.0 ft.) wide broom finish concrete sidewalk
with saw cut joints;
d. Improved street and pedestrian LED lighting including
a lighting analysis and design; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 33
e. Adjustment to all existing infrastructure to
accommodate the proposed street improvements.
Note to Applicant: Specific public realm improvements are
subject to completion and adoption of the Cambie Corridor
Public Realm Plan.
(iv) Provision of speed humps in the lane east of
Cambie Street between King Edward Avenue and
26th Avenue.
(v) Upgrading of the traffic signal at King Edward Avenue
& Cambie Street from Audible to Accessible (APS). APS
buttons provide an audible queue, vibro tactile feedback
and produce less noise/disturbance than the current
audible style signals.
3. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the
closest existing suitable service point. All electrical services to
the site must be primary with all electrical plant, which include
but are not limited to, junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted
transformers and kiosks (including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be
located on private property with no reliance on public property
for placement of these features. There will be no reliance on
secondary voltage from the existing overhead electrical network
on the street right-of-way. Any alterations to the existing
overhead/underground utility network to accommodate this
development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch. The applicant may be required to show details of how
the site will be provided with all services being underground.
4. If, at time of development permit, the applicant chooses not to
meet requirements of the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings
(amended February 7, 2017), they will enter into such
agreements as the General Manager of Engineering Services and
the Director of Legal Services determine are necessary for
connection to a City-designated Neighbourhood Energy System, if
and when the opportunity is available and in accordance with
the City’s Neighbourhood Energy Strategy and the Cambie
Corridor Plan, that may include but are not limited to
agreements which:
(i) Require buildings within the development to connect to
the City-designated Neighbourhood Energy System at such
time that a system becomes available;
(ii) Grant access to the mechanical system and thermal
energy system-related infrastructure within the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 34
development for the purpose of enabling NES connection
and operation; and
(iii) Grant use of and access to suitable space required for the
purposes of an energy transfer station, to the satisfaction
of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: Until a City-designated NES utility
provider has been identified, the Owner will be
prohibited from entering into any third party energy
supply contract for thermal energy services, other than
conventional electricity and natural gas connections,
unless otherwise approved by the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
The development will be required to connect to a NES
prior to occupancy if the General Manager of Engineering
Services deems a connection is available and appropriate
at the time of development permit issuance. If a
connection to a NES is not available at that time, the
agreement will provide for future connection.
At the building permit stage, the applicant will be required to
submit final detailed drawings, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer where necessary, for review by
Engineering Services to confirm final room dimensions and
technical information.
5. If, at time of development permit, the applicant chooses to
meet requirements for the Green Buildings Policy for Rezonings
(amended February 7, 2017), they will enter into an agreement
with the City, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Director of Sustainability and the Director of Legal Services, that
requires the future owner of the building to report energy use
data, on an aggregated basis, for the building as a whole and
certain common areas and building systems. Such an agreement
will further provide for the hiring of a qualified service provider
to assist the building owner for a minimum of three years in
collecting and submitting energy use data to the City.
Environmental Contamination
6. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 35
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Community Amenity Contribution
7. Pay to the City a Community Amenity Contribution of $983,730,
which the applicant has offered to the City. Payment is to be
made prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, at no cost to the
City and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The $983,730 is to be allocated as follows:
(i) $491,865 (50 percent) to the Affordable Housing Reserve
to increase the City’s affordable housing supply in and
around the Cambie Corridor Plan area;
(ii) $393,492 (40 percent) toward childcare and community
facilities in and around the Cambie Corridor Plan area;
and
(iii) $98,373 (10 percent) to the Heritage Conservation
Reserve to enable heritage conservation in the City of
Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: Where the Director of Legal Services deems
appropriate, the preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as
personal covenants of the property owners, but also as registerable
charges pursuant to the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject site as is considered advisable by

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 36
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the By-law and at no
cost to the City.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Parking By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4138 Cambie Street”.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4138 Cambie Street”.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(a) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(b) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(c) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02111)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 11, 2017 37
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Stevenson
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 8:33 pm.
* * * * *