REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 28, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was
held on Wednesday, June 28, 2017, at 9:36 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Andrea Reimer, Chair
Councillor George Affleck (Leave of Absence – Personal -
Items 1, 3, 4, and 5)
Councillor Elizabeth Ball, Vice-Chair
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Geoff Meggs
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson (Leave of Absence - Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Katrina Leckovic, Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
Councillor Reimer, Chair, acknowledged that we are on the unceded traditional territory of
the Musqueam, Squamish and Tseil-Waututh First Nations.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
THAT items 3, 4 and 5 be adopted on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 2
1. Independent Election Task Force Report – Report Back
May 26, 2017
The City Clerk and Chief Election Officer, along with the Director of Business and Election
Services / Deputy Chief Election Officer, responded to questions.
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on the components of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council endorse the staff recommendations for increasing Voter Turn Out
and Engagement, as set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
May 26, 2017, entitled “Independent Election Task Force Report – Report Back”;
FURTHER THAT staff use geographic equity as a key factor in accessing where to
locate advance voting stations.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02077)
(Councillor Ball and De Genova opposed)
B. THAT staff advance the recommendation of the Engaged City Task Force, as set
out in the “Independent Election Task Force Final Report”, dated January 2017,
which has been endorsed by Council at the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting on January 24, 2017, (see the IETF Final Report),
supported by the Mayors Working Group on Immigration and Refugees, and part
of the active workplan of the City's Cultural Communities Advisory Committee
and the Vancouver Foundation - to investigate the pros and cons and options
for allowing permanent residents to vote in municipal elections and report back
to Council on their findings prior to December 2017.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02078)
C. THAT Council
(i) Reaffirm our long-standing support to the new Provincial government for
changes in provincial legislation to allow for:
• Municipal campaign finance reform (see Appendix A as set out
below);
• Proportional representation;
• Release of anonymized ballot data to researchers; and
• Online voting;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 3
(APPENDIX A - from minutes of the March 25, 2010, Standing Committee
on Planning and Environment meeting
http://vancouver.ca/ctyclerk/cclerk/20100325/documents/penv201003
25min.pdf)
1. Set limits on the annual amount of contributions that can be
given by an individual to an elector organization, campaign
organizer, or an individual seeking elected office.
2. Ban union and corporate donations.
3. Limit the amount of money that may be spent annually by an
elector organization, campaign organizer, or an individual
seeking elected office during a general local election campaign.
4. These limits on contributions and expenditures would be based
upon a per-elector/capita, per-candidate formula (with
individual candidate resources allowed to be pooled for use by
elector organizations) and would be no higher than provincial
and federal spending limits.
5. Disallow contributions to an elector organization, campaign
organizer, or an individual seeking elected office, from sources
outside of Canada.
6. Require that all donations and expenses for candidates, elected
officials and elector organizations be disclosed on a continuous
basis at six month intervals.
8. Change the definition of “candidate” to include anyone seeking
nomination within an elector organization for candidacy to a
local government office.
9. Appoint the Provincial Chief Election Officer to oversee
municipal elections in BC, and establish penalties and
mechanisms for enforcement of offences under the amended
local government elections legislation.
12. Provide local governments with the authority to use any method
of elections they wish to use, and repeal the requirement for
Lieutenant Governor in Council approval to adopt such a change.
13. Amend the definition of election offenses and related penalties
to include individuals acting as an intermediary in third-party
campaign contribution schemes.
NOTE: Items 7, 10 and 11 were removed as they do not directly relate
to increasing municipal authority for campaign or electoral reform and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 4
were specific to questions posed by the Local Government Elections
Task Force. They are provided below for reference.
7. Implement a system of tax credits for municipal donations,
similar to those for provincial and federal elections.
10. Extend municipal terms of office to four years.
11. Oppose allowing corporations the right to vote in local elections.
(ii) Forward the recommendations from the Independent Election Task
Force to the Province to establish an independent technical committee,
as recommended by the Independent Panel on Internet Voting; and
(iii) Recommends if the Province doesn't pass legislation to enable municipal
campaign finance reform in Vancouver prior to January 1, 2018, that
Vancouver hold a plebiscite concurrently with the 2018 municipal
election on whether or not voters support the Provincial government
enabling municipal campaign finance reform.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02079)
(Councillor Ball and De Genova opposed)
2. Sign By-law Review: New Sign By-law and Sign Fee By-law
June 15, 2017
The Acting Assistant Director, City-Wide and Regional Planning, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make an application to Council and bring forward:
(i) a new Sign By-law; and
(ii) a new Sign Fee By-law;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing; and
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-laws, generally in accordance with Appendices A and B, of the
Policy Report dated June 15, 2017, entitled “Sign By-law Review: New Sign
By-law and Sign Fee By-law”, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT subject to enactment of the new Sign By-law and Sign Fee By-law, Sign
By-law No. 6510 be repealed.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 5
C. THAT Council direct the Director of Legal Services to request that the Province
expand Council’s authority to relax the Sign By-law regulations under Section
571AA of the Vancouver Charter to allow for flexibility for staff to consider
creative and unique signs.
D. THAT subject to enactment of the new Sign By-law and Sign Fee By-law, in
January 2018, Council direct staff to undertake an education and enforcement
campaign as proposed in the Policy Report dated June 15, 2017, entitled “Sign
By-law Review: New Sign By-law and Sign Fee By-law”.
E. THAT Council endorse proceeding with Phase II of the Sign By-law review to
address billboards, third party advertising and corporate sponsorship on private
property, in coordination with other City and Park Board initiatives for
advertising and sponsorship in the public realm, including on city streets and
within city parks.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02080)
(Councillor Jang absent for vote)
3. Contract Award for Construction Services for the Knight and Marine Intersection
Improvements
May 28, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve an increase to the multi-year capital project budget for
Knight and Marine Intersection Improvements from $3,500,000 to $5,200,000;
source of funding for the increase to be reallocation from the multi-year
capital project budget for the 2017 Active Transportation Corridors and Spot
Improvements program. Expenditures will be managed within the overall
approved Annual Capital Expenditure Budget for Engineering Services.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council authorize City staff to enter into
a contract with Lafarge Canada Inc., for Construction Services for the Knight
and Marine Intersection Improvements, for a term of approximately four (4)
months, with an estimated contract value of $3,185,581.00, plus applicable
taxes over the approximate four (4) month term;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and
General Manager of the Engineering Services be authorized to execute on
behalf of the City the contract contemplated above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized
signatories of the City as set out in the above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02086)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 6
4. Acquisition of Social Housing at 1345 Davie Street
May 30, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services and the Director of Legal
Services to negotiate and execute all documents which they consider appropriate in
connection with the acquisition for a nominal purchase price, from the
owner/developer of a multiple dwelling building at 1345 Davie Street (Marcon Davie
Properties Ltd.), of an air space parcel (the “Social Housing Air Space Parcel”)
whereby:
i. the Social Housing Air Space Parcel will contain a minimum of 4,298 m²
(46,263 sq.ft.) of residential floor area and no fewer than 68 units of Social
Housing and associated storage lockers, parking and bike storage;
ii. the City of Vancouver (the “City”), as owner of the Social Housing Air Space
Parcel, will be granted the appropriate rights and be subject to the appropriate
obligations applicable to the ownership and operation of the Social Housing Air
Space Parcel, including reciprocal easements and indemnities, repair and
maintenance, cost sharing, insurance and other applicable legal obligations;
and
iii. the construction and transfer to the City of the Social Housing Air Space Parcel
will be secured in a Construction and Transfer Agreement to be registered
against title to the lands (Lot 14 Block 37 District Lot 185 Plan 92) (the
“Lands”) in accordance with DP-2016-00373 as conditionally approved by the
Development Permit Board on March 20, 2017, pursuant to the RM-5D District
Schedule.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02087)
5. 955 East Hastings Street - Social Housing Operator Selection and Lease Terms
June 20, 2017
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve Lookout Emergency Aid Society (“Lookout”) as the
selected non-profit partner to operate the 70 unit social housing Air Space
Parcel (“ASP”) to be created from the parent parcel located at
955 East Hastings Street legally described as PID: 029-260-558, Lot 1
Block 62 District Lot 181 Group 1 New Westminster District Plan EPP26162.
B. THAT Council authorize the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities
Management to negotiate and execute a lease (the “Lease”) for the ASP
located at 955 East Hastings Street on terms and conditions outlined in the
Administrative Report dated June 20, 2017, entitled “955 East Hastings Street –
Social Housing Operator Selection and Lease Terms”, including:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 7
• A term of 60 years;
• A lease payment of $3.8 million, subject to confirmation of financing, to
be paid to the City by the end of the first year of operation;
• At least one-third of social housing units must be rented at shelter
component of Income Assistance for low-income households who are
eligible for Income Assistance or a combination of Old Age Pension and
Guaranteed Income Supplement. Of the remaining social housing units,
at least one-third are to be at rents affordable to people who earn up to
“Housing Income Limits” or HILs, and the remaining units to be at
affordable market rents (“Low End of Market” rents);
• Adherence to the Operating Agreement and Service Level Agreement;
• All revenues generated from the project to be reinvested to: (i) fund
the Operating Reserve, and/or (ii) augment the Capital Replacement
Reserve, and/or (iii) maintain and enhance housing affordability
throughout the life of the project, and/or (iv) create or acquire new
affordable housing within the City of Vancouver, and/or (v) fund
payment of identified capital maintenance or replacement costs;
• The operator to provide insurance required by the City of Vancouver;
and
• A requirement to pay a proportionate share (to be negotiated and
defined within the Reciprocal Easement and Indemnity Agreement) of
maintenance and replacement costs for common aspects of the
development.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations shall arise or be created by the adoption of
A and B above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 02089)
6. Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law
June 20, 2017
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, Housing Policy staff, and
the Director of Financial Services, presented on this matter and, along with and the General
Manager of Finance, Risk & Supply Chain Management, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the recommendations and five
speakers who were either in opposition or expressed concerns regarding specific aspects of
the recommendations.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 8
* * * * *
At 11:58 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
The Committee recessed at 11:59 am and reconvened at 1:39 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Meggs
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law No. 11674 as
described in the Administrative Report dated June 20, 2017, entitled
“Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law”, and instruct the Director of
Legal Services to bring forward a by-law to amend Vacancy Tax By-Law
No. 11674 generally as set out in Appendix A of the above-noted report for
enactment.
B. THAT Council receive for information additional data on the number of homes
that may be impacted by the Vacancy Tax By-Law and the Empty Homes Tax
(EHT) as described in the Administrative Report dated June 20, 2017, entitled
“Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law”.
carried
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as C at the end:
C. THAT Council direct staff to add an exemption to the Vacancy Tax
By-law for second homes that are occupied on a monthly basis or a
minimum of 180 days per year by owners for their own family purposes.
LOST (Vote No. 02081)
(Councillors Deal, Jang, Louie, Meggs, Reimer and Stevenson opposed)
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on components of the motion.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 9
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
A. THAT Council approve the amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law No. 11674 as
described in the Administrative Report dated June 20, 2017, entitled
“Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law”, and instruct the Director of Legal
Services to bring forward a by-law to amend Vacancy Tax By-Law No. 11674
generally as set out in Appendix A of the above-noted report for enactment.
CARRIED (Vote No. 02082)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball and De Genova opposed)
B. THAT Council receive for information additional data on the number of homes
that may be impacted by the Vacancy Tax By-Law and the Empty Homes Tax
(EHT) as described in the Administrative Report dated June 20, 2017, entitled
“Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02083)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 3:19 pm and reconvened at 3:26 pm.
* * * * *
7. Support for Chinese Cultural Centre Seniors Space
At the Regular Council meeting on June 27, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred this matter
to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 28, 2017, to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker who was in support of the motion.
MOVED by Acting Mayor Louie
WHEREAS
1. Many Chinese seniors associations have requested dedicated seniors cultural
activity space;
2. The membership of these Chinese seniors associations number in the
thousands;
3. The issue of access to affordable and sufficient space is a major concern for
the Chinese seniors;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 10
4. The recent attempt to secure Chinese seniors cultural space within the
proposed 105 Keefer development failed due to the rejection of the
development proposal by City Council.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to explore all
options to secure sufficient and affordable space for these groups of Chinese senior
associations, including the use of financial subsidy or the securing of space through
another development proposal;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT City staff report back on viable options by the last
Council meeting in October 2017.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02084)
8. Banning Pet Sales from Retail Outlets
At the Regular Council meeting on June 27, 2017, Vancouver City Council referred this matter
to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 28, 2017, to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from six speakers who were in support of the motion.
The following contains amendments to the original motion which were accepted by the
Committee.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver currently has License By-law No. 4450 that allows for the sale of
cats, dogs and rabbits from commercial breeding facilities;
2. It has been shown that commercial breeding facilities can raise animals in
horrible conditions resulting in neglect, abuse and suffering;
3. As a result of the inhumane conditions these animals are produced in, they
often suffer from disease, and other physical, emotional and behaviour
problems;
4. The City of Richmond has passed by-laws restricting the sale of dogs (2010)
and rabbits (2009), the City of New Westminster has passed a by-law
restricting the sale of cats, dogs and rabbits (2012) within their
municipalities;
5. Other municipalities across Canada have passed by-laws restricting the sale of
cats, dogs and rabbits;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 11
6. Many members of the public have contacted Vancouver City Council
expressing concern over the sale of cats, dogs and rabbits within the city and
request that the City of Vancouver take action;
7. Potential pet owners still have the option of obtaining a cat, dog or rabbit
directly through reputable breeders and through recognized animal rescue
and shelter organizations.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT
A. Staff put forward amendments to the License By-law No. 4450 to
prohibit the sale of cats, dogs and rabbits in a pet store or other type of
retail premises with the exception of those animals offered for adoption
from a recognized animal rescue society or shelter organization.
B. Staff inform Council of the earliest date that a ban can be
implemented.
C. Staff work with recognized animal rescue societies or shelter
organizations to educate the public of the inhumane conditions of
commercial breeding facilities and promote the benefits of animal
adoptions through rescue societies and reputable breeders.
D. Staff explore other ways of encouraging the adoption of shelter animals
and responsible pet ownership which will reduce the number of
abandoned animals.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02085)
The Committee adjourned at 5:12 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 28, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
June 28, 2017, at 5:13 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the
recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Acting Mayor Raymond Louie
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang
Councillor Geoff Meggs
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
ABSENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson (Leave of Absence - Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
June 28, 2017
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Independent Election Task Force Report – Report Back
2. Sign By-law Review: New Sign By-law and Sign Fee By-law
3. Contract Award for Construction Services for the Knight and Marine Intersection
Improvements
4. Acquisition of Social Housing at 1345 Davie Street
5. 955 East Hastings Street - Social Housing Operator Selection and Lease Terms
6. Amendments to Vacancy Tax By-Law
7. Support for Chinese Cultural Centre Seniors Space
8. Banning Pet Sales from Retail Outlets

Regular Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 28, 2017 2
Items 1 to 8
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities at its meeting of June 28, 2017, as contained in items 1 to 8,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND ITEM 5
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 5:13 pm.
* * * * *