REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 13, 2017
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
June 13, 2017, at 9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Gregor Robertson
Councillor George Affleck
Councillor Elizabeth Ball
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Heather Deal
Councillor Kerry Jang*
Councillor Raymond Louie
Councillor Geoff Meggs
Councillor Andrea Reimer
Councillor Tim Stevenson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Janice MacKenzie, City Clerk
Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
Mayor Robertson acknowledged we are on the unceded traditional territory of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the order of the agenda be varied to consider Unfinished Business item 2
starting at 2 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the
Council considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests
of the city;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an
activity, work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of
the Council, could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they
were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – May 30, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of May 30, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. Regular Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – May 30, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting of May 30, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 3
3. Public Hearing – May 23, 25, 26, and 29, 2017
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of May 23, 25, 26, and 29, 2017, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council adopt Administrative Report 2, and Policy Reports 1 to 3, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Vancouver Commemorates Canada 150+ Grant Allocations
June 1, 2017
Marg Specht, Director of Special Projects, provided a presentation on preparations for the
Canada 150+ celebrations, outlined grant requests for Council’s consideration, and responded
to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT Council approve two Canada 150+ Grants totaling $40,000 as outlined in
the Administrative Report dated June 1, 2017, entitled “Vancouver
Commemorates Canada 150+ Grant Allocations”; the source of funds is the
Cultural Tourism Reserve Fund (CTRF).
B. THAT the grants be subject to each grant recipient agreeing to the terms and
conditions as generally outlined in the Administrative Report dated June 1,
2017, entitled “Vancouver Commemorates Canada 150+ Grant Allocations” and
on grant agreement terms satisfactory to the Director of Special Projects and
the City Solicitor.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 4
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A and B
above unless and until grant agreement letters are executed and delivered by
the grant recipients: International Dragon Boat Festival Society and the
Pulling Together Canoe Society.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 01990)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: 1101 West Waterfront Road (1199 West Cordova Street)
On Tuesday, May 16, 2017, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public Hearing
regarding an application for a text amendment for 1101 West Waterfront Road (1199 West
Cordova Street) and, following the close of the receipt of public comments, referred
discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on June 13, 2017, as Unfinished
Business.
In addition to the documents distributed with the Public Hearing agenda, Council also had
before it a memorandum from the Acting Assistant Director of Planning – Vancouver-
Downtown, which provided information about this matter requested by Council at the Public
hearing, and set out an additional condition of approval for Council’s consideration, as
follows:
THAT the following condition of approval be added after condition (b)3 and the
remaining conditions be renumbered:
4. Design development to ensure adequate sight lines and safe pedestrian
movement between the Grand Staircase and the seawall.
Note to Applicant: This may require a reduction to the extent of the
building wall along the Grand Staircase.
Note: changes to the recommendation are noted in bold italics below.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT the application by CitySpaces Consulting Ltd., on behalf of the City of
Vancouver (Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation), to amend the text of
Comprehensive Development (CD-1) District (363) By-law No. 7679 for
1101 West Waterfront Road (formerly 1199 West Cordova Street) [PID 023-686-
952; Lot 21, Except Part In Plan BCP1695, of the Public Harbour of Burrard
Inlet Plan LMP29892], to increase the maximum floor area in Sub-area 3 for
Retail and Service use (restaurant) from 600 sq. m (6,458 sq. ft.) to 975 sq. m
(10,495 sq. ft.), generally as presented in Appendix A of the Policy Report
dated March 28, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 1101 West Waterfront
Road (1199 West Cordova Street)”, be approved subject to the following
conditions:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 5
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in
principle, generally as prepared by CitySpaces Consulting Ltd., on
behalf of the City of Vancouver (Vancouver Board of Parks and
Recreation ) as the applicant, and stamped “Received Planning &
Development Services (Rezoning Centre) December 8, 2016”, provided
that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to this form of
development when approving the detailed scheme of development as
outlined in (b) below.
b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the
applicant shall obtain approval of a development application by the
Director of Planning, who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Provision of minimum 201 sq. m (2,163 sq. ft.) of covered patio
space, to be included in the maximum floor area calculation.
2. Provision to fully integrate and screen all rooftop equipment and
vents within the green roof.
3. Provision to minimize impact and to improve public realm
interface, such as interface with the Grand Staircase, as well as
the interface with the service tunnel.
4. Design development to ensure adequate sight lines and safe
pedestrian movement between the Grand Staircase and the
seawall.
Note to Applicant: This may require a reduction to the
extent of the building wall along the Grand Staircase.
5. Provision to minimize noise impacts on neighbouring residential
properties.
6. Provision to minimize impact on opportunities for public viewing
of the water from Jack Poole Plaza.
7. Provision of safe, secure, and accessible site circulation.
8. Provision of a Flood Construction Level (FCL) of minimum 4.6 m
(15.09 ft.) for the ground-floor level of the proposed
development, in accordance with Section 4.0 – Flood
Construction Levels (FCLs) of “Flood Plain Standards and
Requirements” Guidelines by the City of Vancouver.
Note to Applicant: The site is located in a designated flood plain.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 6
Engineering
9. Arrangements shall be made to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of Legal
Services for modification to SRW BX400792 (as shown on Plan
BCP15265) to exclude the proposed building area (or proposed
lease site area) prior to occupancy.
10. Provision of a detailed Landscape Plan, sections and perspective
drawings that clearly illustrate the relationship between the
building including the associated landscape and the:
(i) Seawall cycle path;
(ii) Pedestrian/cycling/service tunnel; and
(iii) Grand Staircase.
Note to applicant: Include drawings of the planters and plant
materials proposed adjacent the bike path and illustrate that
adequate sightlines are provided for pedestrian and bicycle
movements between cyclists on the Seaside Greenway (Seawall)
and pedestrians exiting the Grand Stairs and the service tunnel.
11. Provision of automatic door openers on the doors providing
access to the bicycle room(s) and note on plans.
12. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
as follows:
(i) Provision of an improved plan showing the maneuvering
aisle with dimensioned and numbered parking and loading
spaces being provided for this development.
(ii) Provision of minimum vertical clearance for the main
ramp, security gates, and loading bays.
Note to Applicant: A section drawing is required showing
elevations, and vertical clearances. The minimum vertical
clearance should be noted on plans. 2.3 m of vertical
clearance is required for access and maneuvering to all
disability spaces. 3.8 m of vertical clearance is required
for Class B loading spaces and maneuvering.
(iii) Provision of an improved plan showing the loading access
route from the loading space to the restaurant.
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and not
require the use of the Seawall or other public walking
spaces.
(iv) Provision of an improved plan showing the access route
from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach the outside.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 7
Note to Applicant: The route must be ‘stairs free’ and
confirm the use of the parking ramp, if required.
Sustainability
13. Identification on the plans and elevations of the built elements
contributing to the building’s sustainability performance in
achieving LEED® Gold, as required by the Green Buildings Policy
for Rezonings, including a minimum of 63 points in the LEED®
rating system, including at least 22% reduction in energy cost as
compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010, one water efficiency point, and
one stormwater point.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must be
submitted as part of the Development Permit that articulates
which credits the applicant will be pursuing and how their
building application, as submitted, incorporates strategies,
features or technologies that will help achieve these credits.
The strategy, along with the LEED checklist must be incorporated
into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED Accredited
Professional or Administrator must confirm that the proposed
strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning policy.
Proof of registration of the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated
into the drawings. Application for Certification will be required
at a subsequent stage.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services
and to the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, the General Manager of Community Services, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, and Approving Officer, as necessary,
and at the sole cost and expense of the owner/developer, make
arrangements for the following:
Environmental Contamination
1. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services
(Environmental Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all
things and/or enter into such agreements deemed
necessary to fulfill the requirements of Section 571(B) of
the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and
the Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 8
into a remediation agreement for the remediation of the
site and any contaminants which have migrated from the
site on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Manager
of Environmental Services, the General Manager of
Engineering Services and Director of Legal Services,
including a Section 219 Covenant that there will be no
occupancy of any buildings or improvements on the site
constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the
on-site and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry
of Environment, have been provided to the City.
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the
preceding agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants
of the property owners, but also as registered charges pursuant to the
Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land
Title Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and
encumbrances affecting the subject sites as is considered advisable by
the Director of Legal Services, and otherwise to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services prior to enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and
withholding of permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form
satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services. The timing of all required
payments, if any, shall be determined by the appropriate City official
having responsibility for each particular agreement, who may consult
other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 01991)
(Councillors Affleck, Ball, and Reimer opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 9
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. 2016 Annual Report on Community Amenity Contributions and Density Bonusing
May 30, 2017
The Administrative Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled “2016 Annual Report on Community
Amenity Contributions and Density Bonusing” was received for information.
2. 2016 Annual Report on Development Cost Levies
May 23, 2017
The Administrative Report dated May 23, 2017, entitled “2016 Annual Report Development
Cost Levies” was received for information.
POLICY REPORTS
1. CD-1 Rezoning: 4138 Cambie Street
May 30, 2017
A. THAT the application by Pennyfarthing Hillcrest Developments Ltd. on behalf of
Yuk Ying Ng, the registered owner, to rezone 4138 Cambie Street [PID 010-949-
020; Lot 2, Block 681, District Lot 526, Plan 6212] from RS-1 (One-Family
Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase
the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.31 and the height from 10.7 (35 ft.)
to 20.5 m (67 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey residential
development, containing a total of 22 dwelling units, be referred to a Public
Hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by Raymond Letkeman Architects Inc., received
September 28, 2016;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
4138 Cambie Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to the conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Parking By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4138 Cambie Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Parking By-law at the time of enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 10
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated
May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4138 Cambie Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of
the person making the expenditures or incurring the costs;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02002)
2. CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society)
May 30, 2017
A. THAT the application by the Red Door Housing Society to rezone 870 East 8th
Avenue [PID: 002-549-140; Lot G, Block 117, District Lot 264A, Plan 20632]
from RM-4 (Multiple Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District to increase the floor space ratio from 1.45 to 2.80 and the maximum
building height from 10.7 m (35.1 ft.) to 21.3 m (69.9 ft.) to permit a
seven-storey building with 51 social housing units, be referred to a public
hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by dys architecture, received March 22, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Policy Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East
8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society)”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application, subject to conditions
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at the public hearing.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 11
B. THAT, if after public hearing, Council approves in principle this rezoning and
the Housing Agreement described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy
Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red
Door Housing Society)”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare
the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment, after the Housing
Agreement has been agreed to and signed by the property owner and their
mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law contemplated by the
above-noted report.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Parking By-law be
amended to include this CD-1 and to provide parking regulations generally as
set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 870 East 8th Avenue (Red Door Housing Society)”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward
the amendment to the Parking By-law at the time of enactment of the
CD-1 By-law.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02003)
3. Enabling Innovative Development with Social Housing - Amendments to the
Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan (DEOD ODP)
May 30, 2017
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer
Official Development Plan (DEOD ODP), generally to:
(i) Include a definition for local economic development use;
(ii) In sub-area 1 (Main and Hastings), enable the development of other
priority uses in combination with social and secured market rental
housing within the current overall maximum density;
(iii) In sub-areas 1, 2, 3, and 4, allow existing priority uses to expand to a
maximum of 1.5 FSR; and

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 12
(iv) In sub-areas 1, 2, 3 and 4, introduce a relaxation by the Director of
Planning to the current maximum site width (i.e. site frontage) on the
condition that 100% of housing units are social housing;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a public hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Policy Report dated May 30, 2017, entitled “Enabling Innovative Development
with Social Housing - Amendments to the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer
Official Development Plan (DEOD ODP)”, for consideration at public hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
any person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of
funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the
expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02004)
BY-LAWS
Councillor Ball advised she had reviewed the proceedings with regard to by-law 7 and would
be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Reimer advised she had reviewed the proceedings with regard to by-laws 8 to 12,
and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Deal
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 12 inclusive, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AND BY-LAW 12 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 13
1. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (106-116 East 35th Avenue)
(By-law No. 11809)
2. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (585 West 41st Avenue (5688 Ash
Street)) (By-law No. 11810)
3. A By-law to A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 Districts
Parking Requirements (585 West 41st Avenue (5688 Ash Street)) (By-law No. 11811)
4. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 6510 ((585 West 41st Avenue (5688 Ash Street))
(By-law No. 11812)
5. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (585 West 41st Avenue (5688 Ash
Street)) (By-law No. 11813)
6. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (4066 Macdonald Street and 2785
Alamein Avenue) (By-law No. 11814)
7. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (1819 West
15th Avenue - The Hatch House) (By-law No. 11815)
8. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (2840
Yukon Street – The Annie Campbell Residence) (By-law No. 11816)
9. A By-law to authorize Council entering into a Heritage Revitalization Agreement with
the Owner of Heritage Property (2840 Yukon Street – the Annie Campbell Residence)
(By-law No. 11817)
10. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (2850
Yukon Street – The Howard and Idella Campbell Residence) (By-law No. 11818)
11. A By-law to authorize Council entering into a Heritage Revitalization Agreement with
the Owner of Heritage Property (2850 Yukon Street – the Howard and Idella Campbell
Residence) (By-law No. 11819)
12. A By-law to amend Street and Traffic By-law No. 2859 regarding the authority of the
City Engineer (By-law No. 11820)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development – 5688 Ash Street
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this site known as 5688 Ash Street (5688 Ash Street
being the application address) be approved generally as illustrated in the Development
Application Number DE419928, prepared by Frankl Architecture, and stamped
“Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on October 26, 2016,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 14
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design
changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of the
site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. Approval of Form of Development – 3183 Pierview Crescent
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as East Fraser Lands
Area 2 North (3183 Pierview Crescent being the application address) be approved
generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2016-00243,
prepared by Lamont Gouws, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group,
Development Services”, on May 24, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may
impose conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either
the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
3. Approval of Form of Development – 3245 Pierview Crescent
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as East Fraser Lands
Area 2 North (3245 Pierview Crescent being the application address) be approved
generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2016-00245,
prepared by Lamont Gouws, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group,
Development Services”, on May 24, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may
impose conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either
the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
4. Approval of Form of Development – 4188 Yew Street (formerly Known as
4255 Arbutus Street)
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as “Arbutus Block A”
(4188 Yew Street being the development permit application address) be approved
generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DE418990, prepared
by Dialog Canada, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 15
Services”, on May 18, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may impose
conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the
development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
5. Approval of Form of Development – 375 West 59th Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this site known as 375 West 59th Avenue be
approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DE420214,
prepared by Ramsay Worden Architects, and stamped “Received, Community Services
Group, Development Services”, on May 23, 2017, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
6. Approval of Form of Development – 4956 Cambie Street (formerly 468 West 33rd
Avenue and 4956-4958 Cambie Street)
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Reimer
THAT the form of development for this site known as 4956 Cambie Street (formerly
468 West 33rd Avenue and 4956-4958 Cambie Street) be approved generally as
illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2016-00045, prepared by GBL
Architects, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development
Services”, on January 16, 2017, provided that the Director of Planning may impose
conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the
development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 16
B. Motions on Notice
1. Supporting Small Businesses in Vancouver Through Provincial Tax Reform
MOVED by Acting Mayor Louie
SECONDED by Deputy Mayor Meggs
WHEREAS
1. Property assessments on both residential and commercial properties have
soared for successive years, posing significant affordability challenges to some
residents and businesses;
2. Business tenants on triple-net leases have limited ability to absorb
extraordinary increases in rent and to assume all the property taxes passed on
to them by their landlords based on highest and best use of the property;
3. The City of Vancouver has engaged with the Province of BC, BC Assessment
Authority and key stakeholders in assessing viable options to address the
impact of soaring property assessments on small business tenants;
4. The City of Vancouver has implemented targeted three-year land assessment
averaging program to alleviate some property tax impact arising from these
significant assessment increases, but will not be able to transition to five-year
land assessment averaging before 2019 due to a legislative restriction in the
Vancouver Charter.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council call on the Province of BC to
enable the City to transition from three-year to five-year land assessment averaging in
2018 through an exemption to the legislative requirement or legislative amendments
as appropriate; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT City staff report back on the outcome of their work
with the Province of BC, BC Assessment Authority and key stakeholders, with
associated policy recommendations that specifically address the impact of triple net
leases on property tax payments for small business tenants.
referred
Mayor Robertson noted a request to speak to the motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
THAT the motion “Supporting Small Businesses in Vancouver Through Provincial Tax
Reform” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting
on June 14, 2017, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02005)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 17
2. Vancouver Poverty Reduction Plan
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Councillor Jang
WHEREAS
1. Income inequality is growing across Canada and is leaving far too many people
with the stress of managing stagnant incomes and ever growing housing,
childcare, transportation and household costs;
2. BC is the only province without a poverty reduction strategy and inequality in
BC is the highest in Canada. As the largest city in BC, Vancouver experiences
higher than average rates of poverty at approximately 21%;
3. Having a job does not protect you from poverty. Approximately half of the
people living in poverty in Vancouver are working but do not make high enough
wages to make ends meet;
4. Poverty disproportionately affects women, people of colour, aboriginal people,
people dealing with disabilities and those with chronic illnesses - including
mental illness - meaning that in order to be effective, a poverty reduction plan
must also deal with structural inequity and inequality;
5. In October 2014, City Council adopted a poverty reduction target and in 2015
committed to develop a poverty reduction plan as part of the Healthy City
Action Plan (2015-2018). However at that time neither the federal nor
provincial governments were committed to poverty reduction strategies;
6. Municipalities lack direct control over key drivers of poverty such as minimum
wage, social assistance rates and protections for renters. The recent governing
agreement from the provincial NDP and Green Party supports positive action on
these policies;
7. The federal government has committed to developing a national Poverty
Reduction Strategy and launched consultations in February 2017, which the City
of Vancouver is making a submission to.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT staff report back to Council with an update on the
Vancouver Poverty Reduction Plan including opportunities for expanded action as a
result of new provincial and federal commitments.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 01992)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 18
3. Acknowledgement of First Nations’ Role in Saving Lives during the Great Fire of
1886
MOVED by Councillor Reimer
SECONDED by Mayor Robertson
WHEREAS
1. On June 13, 1886 a large fire destroyed most buildings in the newly-
incorporated City of Vancouver leaving only three of the estimated 1,000
existent buildings;
2. The total number of lives lost is unknown, but over two dozen fatalities are
estimated. Only two of the bodies recovered were identifiable, the rest
described as “all burned to a crisp and barely recognizable as human remains”;
3. The fire burned quickly, razing the city in less than 30 minutes. To survive,
people rushed to Burrard Inlet where they crowded onto docked boats or they
jumped into the water;
4. Many more people would have perished in the water if not for local First
Nations families. Despite being forcibly removed from their homelands and
crowded onto a small reserve across the Burrard inlet in Ustlawn, families—at
their own peril—chose to bring their own canoes and boats across the inlet to
rescue Vancouverites. They subsequently offered food and shelter until
Vancouver was rebuilt;
5. The life-sustaining role these First Nations families played was not
acknowledged at the time, nor is it well-referenced in historical accounts of
the Great Fire of 1886.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the City of Vancouver publicly thank the First
Nations families who saved Vancouverites’ lives in the Great Fire of 1886 and properly
commemorate them;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT staff ensure that these First Nations families are
appropriately recognized in City records and archives related to the Great Fire of
1886.
referred
Mayor Robertson noted a request to speak to the motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Ball
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion “Acknowledgement of First Nations’ Role in Saving Lives During the
Great Fire of 1886” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and
Services meeting on June 14, 2017, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02007)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 19
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
THAT Notice of Motion, New Business, and Enquiries and Other Matters be dealt with
following the completion of Unfinished Business item 2.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Council recessed at 10:55 am and reconvened at 2:05 pm
* * * * *
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
2. REZONING: 105 Keefer Street and 544 Columbia Street
On May 23, 25, 26, and 29, 2017, Vancouver City Council heard from speakers at a Public
Hearing on the above-noted application and, following the close of the receipt of public
comments, referred discussion and decision to the Regular Council meeting on June 13, 2017,
as Unfinished Business.
Councillors Ball, De Genova, Deal, Reimer, Stevenson, and Mayor Robertson all advised they
had reviewed the proceedings of the parts of the Public Hearing they had missed and would
therefore be participating in discussion and decision on the application.
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, noted there had been minor corrections
to question number 26 in the document distributed on June 12, 2017, entitled “Rezoning
Application at 105 Keefer Street and 544 Columbia Street Staff Responses to Council
Questions at Public Hearing (Part 2)”.
MOVED by Councillor Jang
SECONDED by Councillor Louie
A. THAT the application by Merrick Architecture, on behalf of Beedie (Keefer
Street) Holdings Ltd., to rezone 105 Keefer Street [PID: 010-650-377, Lot 1,
Block A, District Lots 196 and 2037, Plan 7362] and 544 Columbia Street [PID:
010-650-407, Lot 2, Block A, District Lots 196 and 2037, Plan 7362] from HA-1A
(Chinatown Historic Area) District to a CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to increase the height from 27.4 m (90 ft.) to 36.0 m (118 ft.) to
permit development of a 12-storey mixed-use building with commercial uses at
the ground floor, 25 social housing units (targeted to seniors) on the second
floor and 106 strata residential units on levels 3 to 12, generally as presented
in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated April 18, 2017 entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 105 Keefer Street and 544 Columbia Street”, be approved
subject to the following conditions:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 20
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF FORM OF DEVELOPMENT
(a) That the proposed form of development be approved by Council in principle,
generally as prepared by Merrick Architecture, and stamped “Received
Planning and Development Services December 12, 2016”, provided that General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development as outlined in (b) below.
(b) That, prior to approval by Council of the form of development, the applicant
shall obtain approval of a development application by the Director of Planning,
who shall have particular regard to the following:
Urban Design
1. Design development to achieve a stronger compatibility with the
existing neighbouring public spaces and institutions by increasing the
setbacks for the western portion of the building mass on levels 8 and 9
to:
(i) a minimum 4.9 m (16 ft.) from the south property line for
level 8;
(ii) a minimum 7.3 m (24 ft.) from the south property line for
level 9; and
(iii) a minimum 6.1 m (20 ft.) from the west property line for
levels 8 and 9.
2. Design development to increase the ceiling height of the ground-floor
Commercial Retail Units to a minimum of 4.9 m (16 ft.) clear. An
increase to the overall building height may be increased by 0.6 m (2 ft.)
from 35.1 m (115 ft.) to 35.7 m (117 ft.) to satisfy this condition.
3. Design development to increase the ceiling height of the seniors housing
component located on the second floor, to a minimum of 2.7 m (9 ft.)
clear. An increase to the overall building height may be further
increased by up to 0.3 m (1 ft.) up to a maximum building height of
36.0 m (118 ft.) to satisfy this condition.
4. Design development to further accentuate the sawtooth profile of the
Keefer Street masonry component by increasing the setback of the
living space of Suite 2 on Level 9 to 3.7 m (12 ft.).
5. Design development to visually strengthen the street-facing masonry
building components through the use of parapets or cornice features for
a more formal finish to their top edges.
6. Provision of retractable awnings as the primary weather protection over
the proposed storefronts facing Keefer and Columbia streets, with a
minimum depth of 2.4 m (8 ft.) when in full extension.
Note to Applicant: Provide a notated, large-scaled detail drawing of the
proposed awning system.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 21
7. Design development to include a comprehensive lighting plan for the
lane elevation at the ground level to facilitate activation of the lanes
for pedestrians.
8. Design development to demonstrate that the building complies with the
High-Density Housing for Families with Children Guidelines, and include
a common amenity room with kitchenette and an accessible washroom
adjacent to this amenity room.
Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
9. Design development to respond to CPTED principles, having particular
regards for:
(i) theft in the underground parking;
(ii) residential break and enter;
(iii) mail theft; and
(iv) mischief in alcoves and vandalism, such as graffiti.
Note to Applicant: Building features proposed in response to this
condition should be noted on the plans and elevations. Consider
use of a legend or key to features on the drawings.
Sustainability
10. Confirmation that the application is on track to meeting the Green
Buildings Policy for Rezonings including a minimum of LEED® Gold
rating, with 1 point for water efficiency and stormwater management
and a 22% reduction in energy cost as compared to ASHRAE 90.1 2010,
along with registration and application for certification of the project.
Note to Applicant: A Sustainable Design Strategy must submitted as part
of the Development Permit that articulates which credits the applicant
will be pursuing and how their building application, as submitted,
incorporates strategies, features or technologies that will help achieve
these credits. The design strategy, along with the LEED checklist must
be incorporated into the drawing submission. A letter from a LEED
Accredited Professional or Administrator must confirm that the
proposed strategy aligns with the applicable goals of the rezoning
policy. Proof of registration from the CaGBC must be provided with the
application and the project registration number incorporated into the
drawings. Application for Certification will be required at a subsequent
stage.
Landscape
11. Design development to integrate elements of the Chinatown Memorial
Plaza, such as paving pattern, into the ground level common outdoor
space;
Note to Applicant: This is intended to acknowledge and preserve the
Plaza as a significant community element.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 22
12. Design development to expand programming to include urban
agriculture plots in common outside areas;
Note to Applicant: This should follow the City’s Urban Agriculture
Guidelines for the Private Realm and include infrastructure required,
such as potting benches, hose bibs, etc. Garden plots should be
wheelchair accessible.
13. Design development to expand programming to include children’s play
areas, including benches for parent supervision;
Note to Applicant: This should be located in proximity of an indoor
amenity room, where visual access for adult supervision of children can
take place.
14. Provision of an Arborist Report by an ISA certified arborist, to assess
existing trees for retention potential and recommend methods of
protection;
15. Provision of improved sustainability by the provision of edible plants, in
addition to urban agriculture plots.
Note to Applicant: Edible plants can be used as ornamentals as part of
the landscape design. Shared gardening areas should reference and be
designed to adhere to Council’s Urban Agriculture Guidelines for the
Private Realm and should provide maximum solar exposure and
universal accessibility and be outfitted with amenities such as raised
beds, water for irrigation, potting bench, tool storage and composting.
Provision requirements at the time of Development Permit application:
16. A full Landscape Plan for proposed landscape to be submitted. The
Landscape Plan should illustrate proposed plant materials (with common
and botanical names, plant sizes and quantities), paving, walls, railings,
light fixtures, site grading and other landscape features. Plant material
should be listed in a Plant List that is clearly keyed to the Landscape
Plan. The Landscape Plan should be a minimum 1:100 or 1/8” scale.
17. Section details at a minimum scale of 1/4”=1’ scale to illustrate typical
proposed landscape elements including planters on structures, benches,
fences, gates, arbours, trellises, and other features. Planter section
details must confirm depth of proposed planting on structures is deep
enough to accommodate rootballs of proposed trees well into the
future.
18. Sections (1/4”=1’ or 1:50) illustrating the buildings to public realm
interface facing the streets, confirming a delineated private to public
transition of spaces.
Note to Applicant: The section should include the building façade, as
well as any steps, retaining walls, guardrails, fences and planters. The

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 23
location of the underground parking slab should be included in the
section.
19. Design development to locate, integrate and fully screen lane edge gas
meters and parking garage vents in a manner which minimizes their
impact on the architectural expression and the project’s open space
and public realm.
20. New proposed street trees should be noted “Final species, quantity and
spacing to the approval of City Engineer and Park Board”. Contact
Eileen Curran (604-871-6131) of Engineering Streets Division regarding
street tree spacing and quantity. Contact Cabot Lyford (604-257-8587)
of Park Board regarding tree species.
21. A high-efficiency automatic irrigation system to be provided for all
planters on parkade slab and minimum of hose bibs to be provided for
landscape on grade;
22. A Landscape Lighting Plan to be provided for security purposes.
Note to Applicant: Lighting details can be added to the landscape
drawings; all existing light poles should be shown.
Engineering
23. Clarification of the provision of canopies and or awnings that encroach
onto public property and submission of appropriate application(s). Note
it appears that there is a conflict with existing street lighting at
approximately 54 ft. west of the east property line.
24. A canopy application may be required. Canopies must be fully
demountable and drained to the buildings internal drainage system.
Canopies are defined as a rigid roof like structure supported entirely
from a building and where the canopy deck is constructed of wired or
laminated safety glass or metal not less than 0.56 mm in thickness.
(VBBL section 1A.9.8).
25. An awning application may be required. Awnings must be fully
demountable. Awnings are defined as a light detachable structure of
fabric, sheet metal or other flexible material supported entirely from
the building. (VBBL section 1A.9.7).
26. Provision of automatic door openers for the bike room.
27. Clarify/provide separated garbage storage and pick-up space for
commercial and residential uses. Please show containers and totters on
plans for recycling and garbage needs and refer to the Engineering
garbage and recycling storage facility design supplement for
recommended dimensions and quantities of bins.
Note to Applicant: Pick up operations should not rely on bins being
stored on the street or lane for pick up. Bins are to be returned to
storage areas immediately after emptying.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 24
28. Confirmation that the existing wood pole in conflict with the parking
access can be relocated to avoid access conflicts. Please provide
written confirmation from effected utility companies that the pole and
related services can be relocated. Please show new pole location on the
development permit plans.
29. Provision of an updated Landscape Plan that reflects the off-site
improvements sought for this application. Please submit a copy of the
updated Landscape Plan directly to Engineering for review.
30. Compliance with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The following items are required to meet provisions
of the Parking By-law and the parking and loading design supplement:
(i) Provision of improved plans for the parking and loading at 1/8
scale.
(ii) Provision of the required loading and a shared use loading
agreement amongst all of the building uses.
(iii) Relocate all Class A bicycle spaces as they must be located on
the P1 parking level or at grade or improvement of the
access/egress from the current location by way of stairs free
access directly to the street.
(iv) Provision of ‘stairs free’ loading access from the loading bays to
the CRUs and elevator core and note on plans.
(v) Provision of an improved site plan and landscape drawings
showing the location of the PBS station.
Note to Applicant: Please work with the Engineering PBS branch
to finalize a location within the plaza area.
(vi) Dimension all parking and loading spaces, maneuvering aisle
widths and all types of column encroachments.
(vii) Provision of design elevations on both sides of the parking ramp
at all breakpoints, both sides of the loading bay, within the
parking area.
Note to Applicant: This is required to calculate the slope and
crossfall.
(viii) Provision of parking and loading access, clear of column
encroachments.
Note to Applicant: Columns are shown encroaching onto the
parking ramp and into the Class B loading spaces shown.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 25
(ix) Provision of a section drawing showing elevations, vertical
clearances, and security gates for the main ramp and through
the loading bay.
Note to applicant: 2.3 m of vertical clearance is required for
access and maneuvering to all disability spaces and 3.8 m of
vertical clearance is required for Class B loading spaces and
maneuvering.
(x) Provision of column placement to comply with the requirements
of the Engineering Parking and Loading Design Supplement. A
column 2 ft. in length must be set back 2 ft. from either the
opening to or the end of the parking space. A column 3 ft. long
may be set back 1 ft. Provide additional parking stall width for
stalls adjacent to walls or stalls with columns set back more than
4 ft. from the end of the stall. Provide a minimum 0.3 m (1 ft.)
setback from the drive aisle for all columns.
Note to Applicant: No columns are shown within the parking
levels.
(xi) Modify the loading bay design to provide the following:
a. Provide a loading throat (4 m in width / 68 degrees) as a
23.5 ft. (7.1 m) aisle width is being provided for
maneuvering. With a 28 ft. (8.5 m) maneuvering aisle, no
loading throat is required.
b. Provide a double throat for the Class B loading spaces to
provide access from Columbia Street as the east end of
the lane is a T-lane.
(xii) Show a 20ft. wide O/H gate on drawing A2.03 between the
commercial and residential parking.
Note to Applicant: If a man door is required, maintain the 20 ft.
width for the O/H gate.
(xiii) Provision of an improved plan showing the Class B bicycle spaces
on private property.
Note to Applicant: Locate the bike rack in close proximity to the
lobby and commercial entrances with “stairs free” access.
Ensure that bicycles locked to the rack do not encroach over the
property line.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
31. The proposed plan for site heating and cooling, developed in
consultation with the City and the City-designated NES Utility Provider,
shall be provided prior to the issuance of any development permit, to
the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 26
32. The building(s) heating and domestic hot water system shall be designed
to be easily connectable and compatible with Neighbourhood Energy to
supply all heating and domestic hot water requirements. Design
provisions related to Neighbourhood Energy compatibility must be to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant: The applicant shall refer to the Neighbourhood
Energy Connectivity Standards – Design Guidelines for general design
requirements related to Neighbourhood Energy compatibility at the
building scale. The applicant is also encouraged to work closely with
City staff during mechanical design to ensure compatibility with a
neighbourhood-scale system. As a pre-condition to building permit, a
declaration signed by the registered professional of record certifying
that the Neighbourhood Energy connectivity requirements have been
satisfied will be required.
33. Building-scale space heating and ventilation make-up air shall be
provided by hydronic systems without electric resistance heat or
distributed heat generating equipment (including but not limited to gas
fired make-up air heaters, heat producing fireplaces, distributed heat
pumps, etc.) unless otherwise approved by the General Manager of
Engineering Services.
34. Provide for adequate and appropriate dedicated space to be utilized for
an energy transfer station connecting the building(s) to the
City-designated Neighbourhood Energy System, as outlined in the
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards Design Guidelines, at
development permit.
35. Detailed design of the building HVAC and mechanical heating system at
the building permit stage must be to the satisfaction of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
CONDITIONS OF BY-LAW ENACTMENT
(c) That, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the registered owner shall on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and to the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, the General
Manager of Engineering Services, the Approving Officer and other City staff
identified below, as necessary, and at the sole cost and expense of the
owner/developer, make arrangements for the following:
Engineering
1. Consolidation of Lots 1 and 2, Block A, DL 196 and 2037, Plan 7362 to
create a single parcel.
2. Confirmation from the City of Vancouver Sewers Design Engineer that
right of way 62003M does not contain an active sewer or is necessary for
other purposes and may be abandoned, if so release of Statutory Right
of Way 62003M (for sewer and drainage purposes) prior to building
occupancy is required.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 27
Note to Applicant: Arrangements are to be secured prior to zoning
enactment, with release to occur prior to issuance of an Occupancy
Permit for the site. Provision of a letter of commitment will
satisfactorily address this condition. Prior to building occupancy the
applicant is to supply a written request to the City, a fresh title search
and a copy of the documents along with executable discharge
documents to affect the release.
3. Provision of building setback and a surface SRW to achieve a distance of
up to 4.3 m (14 ft.) from the back of the City curb to the building face
on the 14.8 m (48.6 ft.) southerly portion of the building frontage along
Columbia Street. A legal survey of the existing dimension from the back
of the City curb to the existing property line is required to determine
the final setback/SRW dimension. Landscaping, door swings, stairs and
walls are not to encroach into the final SRW area.
4. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on and off-site works
and services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site
(collectively called the “services”) such that they are designed,
constructed and installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street
dedications and rights of way for the services are provided. No
development permit for the site will be issued until the security for the
services are provided.
(i) Provision of costs for abandonment of the City sewer in right of
way 62003M.
(ii) Provision of geometric changes adjacent the site to allow for
removal of the service road and modify the plaza to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services.
Changes will include but are not limited to the following:
a. Removal of the service road and related curb, sidewalk
and pavement and reconstruction of the sidewalks and
curb to meet adjacent sidewalk and pavement
treatments and/or Chinatown sidewalk patterns.
Note to Applicant: Confirmation that the service road is
not required for firefighting access is required.
b. Removal of the existing concrete bollards on both sides of
the service road.
c. Relocate the 3 double lantern pedestrian lights and poles
to improve the pedestrian space and/or provide for
improved lighting in the plaza area.
d. If the redesign of the plaza, through a community led
process, determines that it is appropriate to include the
provision of space for installation of a public bike share
station, the following shall be the PBS requirements:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 28
 Size: At a minimum a 16 m x 4 m sized station should
be accommodated.
 Location: The station shall be located to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
 Surface treatment: A hard surface is required with no
utility access points within 150 mm. Acceptable
surfaces include CIP concrete (saw cut or broom
finished), asphalt and pavers. Other firm, paved
materials are subject to approval.
 Grades: The surface must be leveled with a maximum
cross slope of 3% and have a consistent grade (i.e. no
grade transitions) along the length with a maximum
slope of 5%. At minimum, spot elevations at the four
corners of the station must be provided.
 Sun exposure: No vertical obstructions to maximize
sun exposure as the station operates on solar power.
Ideally the station should receive 5 hours of direct
sunlight a day.
 Power: Provision of an electrical service and
electrical power is to be available in close proximity
to the PBS station.
(iii) Provision of new sidewalks consistent with the Chinatown
sidewalk patterns adjacent the site.
(iv) Provision of a standard concrete lane crossing, new curb returns
and curb ramps on the east side of Columbia Street at the lane
south of Pender Street.
(v) Provision of LED intersection lighting at the Columbia Street/
Keefer Street intersection.
(vi) Provision of street trees adjacent to the site where space
permits.
(vii) Provision of adequate water service to meet the fire flow
demands of the project. The current application lacks the details
to determine if water main upgrading is required. Please supply
project details including projected fire flow demands as
determined by the applicant’s mechanical consultant to
determine if water system upgrading is required. Should
upgrading be necessary then arrangements to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services and the Director of
Legal Services will be required to secure payment for the
upgrading. The developer is responsible for 100% of any water
system upgrading that may be required.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 29
(viii) Upgrading of approximately 80 m of the existing 200 mm sanitary
sewer on L/N Keefer Street to a 375 mm sewer to accommodate
the flows from the site at 100% the developer’s expense. This
upgrade is currently estimated at $250,000.00. Should the
applicant wish to connect their storm and sanitary connections
to the separated sewers on Columbia Street, no sewer upgrades
will be required. Confirmation from the applicant’s mechanical
engineer that they can achieve a connection to the Columbia
Street sewer is required.
Note to Applicant: No upgrades are required for the storm
sewers that will serve the site.
5. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest
existing suitable service point. All electrical services to the site must be
primary with all electrical plant, which include but are not limited to,
junction boxes, switchgear, pad mounted transformers and kiosks
(including non BC Hydro Kiosks) are to be located on private property
with no reliance on public property for placement of these features.
There will be no reliance on secondary voltage from the existing
overhead electrical network on the street right-of-way. Any alterations
to the existing overhead/underground utility network to accommodate
this development will require approval by the Utilities Management
Branch. The applicant may be required to show details of how the site
will be provided with all services being underground.
Neighbourhood Energy Utility
6. Enter into such agreements as the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services determine are necessary for
connection to a Neighbourhood Energy System, if and when the
opportunity is available and in accordance with the City’s policy for
Neighbourhood Energy Connectivity Standards where relevant, which
may include but are not limited to agreements which:
(i) require buildings on site to connect to a Neighbourhood Energy
System, at such time that a system becomes available;
(ii) grant access to the mechanical system and thermal energy
system-related infrastructure within the development for the
purpose of enabling Neighbourhood Energy System connection
and operation; and
(iii) grant access to and use of suitable space required for the
purposes of an energy transfer station, to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services.
Note to Applicant:
a. Until a City-designated Neighbourhood Energy System
utility provider has been identified, the Owner will be
prohibited from entering into any energy supply contract

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 30
for thermal energy services, unless otherwise approved
by the General Manager of Engineering Services.
b. The development will be required to connect to a NES
prior to occupancy if the General Manager of Engineering
Services deems a connection is available and appropriate
at the time of development permit issuance. If
connection to a NES is not available at that time, the
agreement will provide for future connection.
c. At the building permit stage, the applicant will be
required to submit final detailed drawings, signed and
sealed by a professional engineer where necessary, for
review by Engineering Services to confirm the final room
dimensions and technical information.
Housing Policy and Projects
7. BC Housing to make arrangements satisfactory to the Director of Legal
Services to purchase the 25 non-market units.
8. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services to enter into a
Housing Agreement to secure the 25 non-market units for the greater of
60 years or the life of the building subject to the following additional
conditions in respect of those units:
(i) that the separate sale or transfer of legal or beneficial
ownership of any such units are prohibited;
(ii) that at least 30% (8) of those units are occupied by households
with incomes below housing income limits, as set out in the
current “Housing Income Limits” table published by the British
Columbia Housing Management Commission, or equivalent
publication;
(iii) that the social housing units will be legally and beneficially
owned by a non-profit corporation, or by or on behalf of the
city, the Province of British Columbia, or Canada;
(iv) that all social housing units will be used only to provide rental
housing for terms of not less than one month at a time; and
(v) such other terms and conditions as the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Community Services may in their
sole discretion require.
Note to Applicant: this condition will be secured by a 219 Covenant and
a Housing Agreement to be entered into by the City by by-law enacted
pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 31
Social Policy and Projects
9. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Social Policy
and Projects and the Director of Legal Services to secure the
commercial retail unit facing Columbia Street on the ground floor with a
minimum area of 115.1 sq. m (1,239 sq. ft.) as a seniors cultural and
recreational space through a Community Use Agreement. Such unit to
be made available by lease of not less than 10 years, with a possibility
to renew, at a discounted rent, to a non-profit organization acceptable
to the City.
Public Art
10. Execute an agreement satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and
the Managing Director of Cultural Services for the provision of public art
in accordance with the City’s Public Art Policy, such agreement to
provide for security in a form and amount satisfactory to the aforesaid
officials; and provide development details to the satisfaction of the
Public Art Program Manager (a checklist will be provided). Please note a
Civic Program Contribution of 10 per cent of the proposed public art
budget is to be attributed towards the Public Art Program prior to
Development Permit (DP) issuance. Please contact the Public Art
Program regarding public art options.
Note to Applicant: Please call 311 to be directed to the Public Art
Program Manager to discuss your application.
Environmental Contamination
11. If applicable:
(i) Submit a site profile to Environmental Services (Environmental
Protection);
(ii) As required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, do all things and/or
enter into such agreements deemed necessary to fulfill the
requirements of Section 571(B) of the Vancouver Charter; and
(iii) If required by the Manager of Environmental Services and the
Director of Legal Services in their discretion, enter into a
remediation agreement for the remediation of the site and any
contaminants which have migrated from the site on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Manager of Environmental
Services, the General Manager of Engineering Services and
Director of Legal Services, including a Section 219 Covenant that
there will be no occupancy of any buildings or improvements on
the site constructed pursuant to this rezoning until separate
Certificates of Compliance satisfactory to the City for the on-site
and off-site contamination, issued by the Ministry of
Environment, have been provided to the City.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 32
Note: Where the Director of Legal Services deems appropriate, the preceding
agreements are to be drawn, not only as personal covenants of the property
owners, but also as Covenants pursuant to Section 219 of the Land Title Act.
The preceding agreements are to be registered in the appropriate Land Title
Office, with priority over such other liens, charges and encumbrances affecting
the subject sites as is considered advisable by the Director of Legal Services,
and otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services prior to
enactment of the by-laws.
The preceding agreements shall provide security to the City including
indemnities, warranties, equitable charges, letters of credit and withholding of
permits, as deemed necessary by and in a form satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services. The timing of all required payments, if any, shall be determined
by the appropriate City official having responsibility for each particular
agreement, who may consult other City officials and City Council.
B. THAT the application to amend Schedule E of the Sign By-law to establish
regulations for this CD-1 in accordance with Schedule “C” to the Sign By-law
[assigned Schedule “C” (HA-1A)], generally as set out in Appendix C of the
Policy Report dated April 18, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 105 Keefer Street
and 544 Columbia Street”, be approved.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval the amendment to the
Noise Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy Report
dated April 18, 2017 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 105 Keefer Street and 544
Columbia Street”.
D. THAT, if Council approves in principle this rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in section (c) of Appendix B of the Policy Report dated April 18, 2017
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 105 Keefer Street and 544 Columbia Street”, the
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment, prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law,
subject to the terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the
Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Community Services.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for
the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the
person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 33
or discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
LOST (Vote No. 01993)
(Councillors Affleck, Carr, Deal, Jang, Meggs, Reimer, Stevenson, and Mayor Robertson
opposed)
NOTICE OF MOTION
1. Support for Chinese Cultural Seniors Spaces
Councillor Louie submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be
placed on the June 27, 2017, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
2. Pursuing 100% Social Housing for 105 Keefer and 544 Columbia Streets Site
Councillor Carr submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be
placed on the June 27, 2017, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
3. Change to Council Area Liaison for Chinatown and Council Liaison for the
Chinatown Historic Area Planning Committee
Councillor Louie submitted a motion on the above-noted matter. Councillor Affleck called
noted under section 10.3(d) of the Procedure By-law. The motion will be placed on the
June 27, 2017, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Louie
SECONDED by Councillor Deal
A. THAT Councillor Stevenson be granted Leave of Absence for Personal Reasons
from meetings to be held June 22, 2017.
B. THAT Councillor Meggs be granted Leave of Absence for Civic Business from the
Regular Council meeting on June 27, 2017.
C. THAT Mayor Robertson be granted Leave of Absence for Civic Business from
meetings to held on June 27 and 28, 2017.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 02008)
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 13, 2017 34
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Update on Pet Store Violations
Councillor De Genova requested an update on her May 30, 2017, enquiry regarding a pet store
that is selling puppy-mill puppies. The City Manager noted staff are investigating and will
submit a response.
2. Mayor and Council Correspondence
Councillor De Genova noted she had received emails from the public that the
mayorandcouncil@vancouver.ca email address is no longer being monitored and requested an
update on how correspondence to Council is now being handled.
3. Aging SROs and the Balmoral Hotel
Councillor De Genova noted a number of SROs are aging out, and asked for an update on
contingency plans if a number of people need to be rehoused quickly. The City Manager noted
the SRO Task Force is working on this issue and Council will continue to receive updates.
Councillor Carr requested a briefing on legal issues surrounding the Balmoral Hotel and
whether the City will pursue taking the owners to Court. The City Manager provided a brief
overview, noting staff have requested changes to the Vancouver Charter to increase the City’s
ability to take action against landlords who do not take care of SROs. Councillor Carr
requested these details be set out in a briefing.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Stevenson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Jang absent for the vote)
The Council adjourned at 3:29 pm.
* * * * *