REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MARCH 12, 2025
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, March 12, 2025, at 9:37 am in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by the Part 14
of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Lenny Zhou, Chair
Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Mike Klassen, Vice-Chair
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Brian Montague
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 2
* * * * *
Prior to considering matters adopted on consent, Mayor Sim rose to declare a conflict of
interest, under Section 145.2(2) of the Vancouver Charter, on Report 4 due to owning property
in the area.
* * * * *
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council adopt Reports 1 through 5 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Sim ineligible to vote on Report 4 due to conflict of interest)
REPORTS
1. 2025 Property Taxation – Targeted Land Assessment Averaging & Development
Potential Relief Program
March 4, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the extension of the pilot development
potential relief program (“Pilot DPRP”) in 2025 for eligible Light Industry (Class 5)
and Business and Other (Class 6) properties as authorized by s. 374.6 of the
Vancouver Charter;
FURTHER THAT, for each neighborhood/zoning district, Council approve the
percentage of assessed land value, up to a maximum of $6.5 million for each
eligible property, to be taxed at a general purpose tax rate that is 50% lower than
the blended rate for Classes 5 and 6 (to be finalized based on the 2025 Revised
Assessment Roll) generally as outlined in Appendix G of the Report dated March
4, 2025, entitled “2025 Property Taxation – Targeted Land Assessment Averaging
& Development Relief Program”.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
be instructed to bring forward for enactment a by-law in accordance with
Council’s decision on A above.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 3
C. THAT Council approve, in principle, the continuation of the targeted 5-year land
assessment averaging program (“Targeted Averaging”) in 2025 for the purpose of
calculating property taxes for Residential (Class 1), Light Industry (Class 5), and
Business and Other (Class 6) properties;
FURTHER THAT, in addition to the standard exclusions as outlined in the annual
Land Assessment Averaging By-law, Council adopt a “threshold” of 10% above
the property class average change for Class 1 and for Classes 5 and 6 (to be
finalized based on the 2025 Revised Assessment Roll) to define eligibility for
Targeted Averaging;
FURTHER THAT, applying the averaging formula will not result in:
i) a year-over-year change in values falling below the Council-adopted
“threshold” for eligible Class 1, 5 and 6 properties; and
ii) a reduction in values exceeding $6.5 million for eligible Class 5 and 6
properties.
D. THAT properties impacted by a Director of Planning-initiated amendment to the
Zoning and Development By-law or an Official Development Plan, between
November 1, 2023 and October 31, 2024, be considered for Targeted Averaging,
in accordance with the criteria set out in the annual Land Assessment Averaging
By-law;
FURTHER THAT properties whose owners sought additional density or a change
in use through rezoning and received approval in principle from Council following
a public hearing, whether enacted or not, or through Council-approved policy
changes, between November 1, 2022, and October 31, 2024, not be eligible for
Targeted Averaging;
AND FURTHER THAT, subject to A and B above, properties that receive relief
under the Pilot DPRP not be eligible for Targeted Averaging in accordance with
s. 374.6(6)(b)(iii) of the Vancouver Charter.
E. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
be instructed to bring forward for enactment a by-law in accordance with
Appendix H of the Report dated March 4, 2025, entitled “2025 Property Taxation
– Targeted Land Assessment Averaging & Development Relief Program”
authorizing the use of Targeted Averaging in accordance with Council’s decision
on C and D above.
F. THAT, subject to adoption of the applicable by-law in E above, the Director of
Finance be instructed to make appropriate arrangements with BC Assessment for
the production of the 2025 Average Assessment Roll at an estimated cost of
~$30,000 plus applicable taxes; source of funding to be the 2025 Operating Budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10587)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 4
2. Supply and Delivery of Personal Protective Equipment (“PPE”)
February 11, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement for the Supply and
Delivery of Personal Protective Equipment with Weber Supply Company Inc. for
an estimated total contract value of $3,136,476 plus applicable taxes over the
initial three-year term, with the City holding three two-year options to extend the
contract for an estimated total value of $9,409,430 plus applicable taxes over the
potential nine-year term (the “Agreement”), which will be funded from user
department’s operating and capital budget.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of
Engineering Services.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10588)
3. 2024 Q4 Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
February 25, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve Capital Plan and Capital Budget adjustments as outlined
in the Report dated February 25, 2025, entitled “2024 Q4 Quarterly Capital
Budget Adjustments and Closeouts” which will result in:
i. An increase of $15.1 million to the 2023-2026 Capital Plan; and
ii. An increase of $40.3 million to the Multi-Year Capital Project Budgets.
B. THAT, as part of the Capital Budget closeout process, Council approves the
closeout of 3 completed projects with surplus/deficit exceeding $0.2 million, as
outlined in Appendix C of the Report dated February 25, 2025, entitled “2024 Q4
Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10589)
4. Approval of 2025-26 Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets
February 5, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the 2025-26 fiscal year Business Improvement Area (BIA)
Budgets as described in the Report dated February 5, 2025, entitled “Approval of
2025-26 Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets”, approve grants to 22 BIAs
totaling $19,519,936 (to be disbursed as outlined in Table 1, column A of the
above-noted Report).

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 5
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward the
appropriate rating by-laws to recover the amounts of the grants referenced in A
above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10590)
(Mayor Sim ineligible to vote due to a conflict of interest)
5. Disaster Resilience & Innovation Funding Program Grant Application
February 11, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council direct staff to submit a funding application for up to $215,000 for
the “Reducing Extreme Heat Risk in Existing Multifamily Buildings Project”
through the Provincial Disaster Resilience & Innovation Funding (DRIF) program.
B. THAT Council endorses the Project scope of work as presented in the Report
dated February 11, 2025, entitled “Disaster Resilience & Innovation Funding
Program Grant Application”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10591)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Deferring the Collection of Development Cost Levies (DCLs) and Related
Development Charges to Support New Housing and Job Supply
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Uncertain real estate market conditions, highlighted by softening demand along
with rising costs (i.e. building material prices, skilled labour shortages, high
interest rates, adjustments to local and regional (Metro and TransLink)
Development Cost Levies/Charges (DCLs/DCCs), are all factoring into a
challenging environment to deliver new housing, particularly rental;
2. Council has recognized the challenging market conditions in both 2023 and 2024
by deferring the City’s annual inflationary DCL rate adjustments, balancing the
need to support new housing along with the need to deliver key infrastructure to
support new development;
3. The City collects DCLs as well as regional DCCs on behalf of Metro Vancouver
and TransLink from new development at the time of building permit issuance;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 6
4. Altering the time of DCL/DCC collection could reduce upfront costs for new
development, helping to unlock more housing starts and housing supply that are
urgently needed to address the housing crisis;
5. Section 523D(8) of the Vancouver Charter generally requires that DCLs be
collected when building permits are issued, but section 523D(9) also allows the
City to authorize DCL payments in installments;
6. The City of Delta and Metro Vancouver are currently examining deferrals of
DCCs to help unlock new housing construction, recognizing that legislation
already allows for DCC deferrals based on installments extending out 2 years
after building permit issuance; and
7. In addition to DCL deferral, the City can consider other initiatives related to
development contributions and form of development changes that can help
support development viability.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to undertake a development
viability review, taking into consideration:
i) current real estate market conditions;
ii) cumulative impact of local and regional development charges and timing of
payment on housing delivery; and
iii) impact of a development charge deferral program on the City’s ability to
deliver infrastructure and amenities to support new housing and jobs;
and report back to Council in Q2 2025 with:
i) development charge deferral recommendations and risk mitigations;
ii) potential legislative changes to support an optimal deferral program structure;
and
iii) other appropriate measures to help improve development viability;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to seek to engage Metro Vancouver, TransLink and
the Province to coordinate and align efforts to enhance development viability that is
streamlined and straightforward to administer and that ensures regional consistency for
new development.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT, recognizing that a staff report addressing considerations and recommendations
for deferral of development charges is targeted to come to Council in May, and to align
with this work already underway, Council refer the motion entitled “Deferring the
Collection of Development Cost Levies (DCLs) and Related Development Charges to
Support New Housing and Job Supply”, to staff for information with direction to fully
consider the following in the upcoming planned report:

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 7
• That the City’s ability to deliver on community amenities is not compromised
given that later fee collection could render amenity and infrastructure delivery
more costly due to an escalating and uncertain cost environment;
• The expected impact of the status quo DCL payment deadlines on housing
delivery;
• The impacts of fully deferred DCLs vs potential progressive or graduated
payment schedules on housing and community amenity delivery;
• The potential impact and considerations of tariffs and supply chain disruptions for
housing, critical infrastructure, and community amenity delivery;
• The specific impact of inflationary pressures and cost escalation on building
materials; and
• The impact of deferral on the City’s capital plan delivery and cash flow.
CARRIED (Vote No. 10583)
(Councillor Fry abstained from the vote)
(Councillors Bligh and Dominato opposed)
2. Sailing Past Gridlock Towers Sustainable Transportation Options
The Committee heard from five speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Traffic congestion in downtown Vancouver and on the Lion’s Gate Bridge is a
persistent issue, driven in part by a lack of regional transportation options,
including for drivers heading to the Sunshine Coast and Bowen Island, and other
destinations via Horseshoe Bay;
2. The City of Vancouver’s Transportation 2040 plan called for infrastructure to
realize a future where alternative forms of transportation, such as by passenger
ferry, made transportation more convenient, rapid, affordable, and enjoyable,
following the example of cities like San Francisco, Seattle, Singapore, Auckland,
and Sydney;
3. The Hullo Ferry, which connects Vancouver and Nanaimo, served 400,000
passengers in its first year, diverting as many as 1,000 people daily from City
roads;
4. The last decade and COVID-19 have seen many Vancouver residents move to
Bowen Island and the Sunshine Coast, but continue to make regular visits to
Vancouver, for reasons including employment, friends and family, recreation, and

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 8
other interests, deepening the need for connectivity with these communities and
expanding Vancouver’s role as a regional hub;1
5. The Greenline Ferry Service is an unsolicited informal proposal for an all-electric
passenger ferry service linking downtown Vancouver, Bowen Island, and the
Sunshine Coast, a concept that enjoys popular support from across the region;
6. Downtown Vancouver is the ideal terminus for this ferry, offering easy access to
key areas of the city, while also providing excellent connectivity to regional public
transit services such as the West Coast Express, Skytrain, Seabus, R5 Rapid
Bus, and ample intercept parking and ride-hailing services, which could reduce
vehicle traffic through downtown, and help alleviate congestion, while softening
air and sound pollution and supporting the city’s climate goals; and
7. A passenger ferry service, like Greenline, would revolutionize commutes for local
residents and transportation for visitors, boosting economic growth and making it
easier to explore B.C.’s beautiful southern coast.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to work with stakeholders,
partners, and park board to consider proposals from potential service providers and
report back regarding options and feasibility to land an electric passenger ferry service in
Downtown Vancouver.
amended
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT under Section 5.4(e) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee be permitted to ask
a second round of questions.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the motion be amended to read as follows:
1https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2021/dp-
pd/prof/details/page.cfm?Lang=E&SearchText=sunshine%20coast&DGUIDlist=2021A00055915062,2021
A00035929&GENDERlist=1&STATISTIClist=1&HEADERlist=0

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 9
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to engage with key
stakeholders, specifically with TransLink (SeaBus terminal) and Cadillac
Fairview, as well as Hullo Ferries, which already has dock access (Vancouver
Ferry Terminal) adjacent to Downtown Vancouver, to explore and consider
proposals from potential ferry service providers regarding options and feasibility
to land an electric passenger ferry service in Downtown Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to consult with the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh First Nations as the longtime custodians of these lands to hear
their perspectives on any proposals;
AND FURTHER THAT staff be directed to report back with recommendations in
relation to any proposals that:
a. take into account convenient existing connections to the Metro Vancouver
transportation system, including SkyTrain and bus routes,
b. take into consideration existing recreational uses such as the Coal
Harbour Public Dock so as to not impact on public docking areas.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the motion be amended to add “c”:
c. Take into consideration the potential use of Harbour Green Dock in
consultation with Park Board
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10584)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amended amendment was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10585). The motion as amended was then put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10586).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to engage with key
stakeholders, specifically with TransLink (SeaBus terminal) and Cadillac Fairview, as
well as Hullo Ferries, which already has dock access (Vancouver Ferry Terminal)
adjacent to Downtown Vancouver, to explore and consider proposals from potential ferry
service providers regarding options and feasibility to land an electric passenger ferry
service in Downtown Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to consult with the Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-
Waututh First Nations as the longtime custodians of these lands to hear their
perspectives on any proposals;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 10
AND FURTHER THAT staff be directed to report back with recommendations in relation
to any proposals that:
a. take into account convenient existing connections to the Metro Vancouver
transportation system, including SkyTrain and bus routes,
b. take into consideration existing recreational uses such as the Coal
Harbour Public Dock so as to not impact on public docking areas,
c. Take into consideration the potential use of Harbour Green Dock in
consultation with Park Board.
The Committee adjourned at 11:04 am.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MARCH 12, 2025
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, March 12, 2025, at
11:06 in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, March 12, 2025
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. 2025 Property Taxation: Pilot Development Potential Relief Program and Targeted Land
Assessment Averaging
2. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Personal Protective Equipment (“PPE”)
3. 2024 Q4 Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
4. Approval of 2025-26 Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets
5. Disaster Resilience & Innovation Funding Program Grant Application
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Deferring the Collection of Development Cost Levies (DCLs) and Related Development
Charges to Support New Housing and Job Supply
2. Sailing Past Gridlock Towards Sustainable Transportation Options

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, March 12, 2025 2
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of March 12, 2025, as contained in Reports 1
through 5 and Council Members’ Motions 1 and 2, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
1. A By-law to Average Land Assessments for 2025
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council enact by-law 1 as listed on the agenda for this meeting, and authorize the
Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 11:08 am.
* * * * *