REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
FEBRUARY 26, 2025
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, February 26, 2025, at 9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized under the
Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Peter Meiszner, Chair
Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato, Vice-Chair
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Kevin Burris, Manager, Civic Agencies
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
None.

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 2
REPORTS
1. Potential to Update the Vancouver Building Bylaw to Enable Single Egress Stairs
February 14, 2025
The General Manager of Development, Buildings and Licensing provided a presentation and
along with staff from Development, Buildings and Licensing, Vancouver Fire Rescue Services
and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from seven speakers who spoke in opposition to the report
recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council direct Planning to further explore and expand on this report from the Chief
Building Official and undertake further due diligence in consultation with the building and
architectural sector who work in the small and low-rise building space to further explore
the housing flexibility and liveability benefits single egress building designs could
provide, and review any related and upcoming studies and literature on single egress
stair buildings, and report back to Council in Fall 2025 with further information for
Council’s consideration;
FURTHER THAT Council affirms its overarching goal of harmonization with the BC
Building Code and request that staff’s report back and recommendations seek to limit
any beneficial proposed additions to the Vancouver Building By-law in order to not add
undue cost and complexity to opening up additional housing options in Vancouver.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT in the first paragraph, the words “and Building staff in consultation with the Fire
Chief,” be added after the word “Planning.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10538)
The amendment having carried unanimously, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10539)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council direct Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff and Development,
Buildings and Licensing staff in consultation with the Fire Chief to further explore and
expand on this report from the Chief Building Official and undertake further due diligence
in consultation with the building and architectural sector who work in the small and low-
rise building space to further explore the housing flexibility and liveability benefits single
egress building designs could provide, and review any related and upcoming studies and

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 3
literature on single egress stair buildings, and report back to Council in Fall 2025 with
further information for Council’s consideration;
FURTHER THAT Council affirms its overarching goal of harmonization with the BC
Building Code and request that staff’s report back and recommendations seek to limit
any beneficial proposed additions to the Vancouver Building By-law in order to not add
undue cost and complexity to opening up additional housing options in Vancouver.
2. Contract Award for Construction Services for Permanent Plazas
January 26, 2025
The General Manager of Engineering Services along with the Associate Director of Street
Activities from Engineering Services, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement for Construction
Services for Permanent Plazas with Jacob Bros. Construction Inc. for an
estimated total contract value of $8,773,550.00 over the approximate one (1)
year term (the “Agreement”), which will be funded through a combination of the
Gathering Places and Green Infrastructure Renewal programs, Climate
Emergency Action Dedicated Funding - Transit Priority Corridor, Climate
Emergency – E-Bike Share, and Public Realm Electrification capital programs.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of
Engineering.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s approval of A and
B above unless and until the City executes and delivers the Agreement.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10540)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Consultation with the Ministry of Housing and BC Housing at a Public Meeting
The Committee heard from six speakers who spoke in support of the motion.

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 4
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Council unanimously approved a plan to acquire 105 SROs with support from the
provincial and federal governments;[1]
2. 15 months ago, Council unanimously approved a motion to UPLIFT the
Downtown Eastside, which committed to updating the DTES Area Plan to deliver
“a greater number of housing including market rental, social and supportive
housing units in the DEOD to meet the needs of residents”, options to create
more below-market commercial spaces and a direction to harmonize the city’s
definition of supportive and social housing with the provinces definition, more
opportunities to provide housing choices;[2]
3. A proposed freeze (“freeze”) discussed recently at the Save Our Streets Forum
appears to contradict those goals and suspend net new supportive housing
construction indefinitely, which will decrease the supply of housing available to
Vancouverites once projects currently underway are complete;
4. Less supportive housing for low-income Vancouverites will likely increase
homelessness, mental health illness, addictions, and crime;
5. The Ministry of Housing and Municipal Affairs, with support from the Canada
Mortgage and Housing Corporation, have been working with the City to acquire
new supportive housing units; and
6. This freeze discourages new investment in housing in the city.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct City staff to invite a delegation from the Ministry of Housing and
Municipal Affairs (“GoBC”) and/or the CEO of BC Housing and BC Housing staff to a
meeting of Council, with considerations to go In-Camera as necessary, to discuss
implications of a freeze on net new supportive housing on or before February 26, 2025;
FURTHER THAT staff work with GoBC and BC Housing to determine how many
supportive housing units would need to be built in Vancouver and across Metro
Vancouver to end chronic homelessness and in which municipalities those units are
needed and report back to Council.
amended
[1] https://council.vancouver.ca/20201007/documents/pspc1a.pdf.
[2] https://council.vancouver.ca/20231129/documents/pspcA4.pdf

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 5
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT in the first paragraph, the words “on or before February 26, 2025,” be removed.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10541)
(Councillor Klassen abstaining from the vote)
The amendment having carried unanimously, the motion as amended was put and LOST
(Vote No. 10542) with Councillors Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor
Sim opposed.
* * * * *
At 11:51 am, during debate and discussion on Members’ Motion 1. “Consultation with the
Ministry of Housing and BC Housing at a Public Meeting,” it was
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT per section 2.8 (a) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee extend the meeting
past noon in order to complete Members’ Motion 2. “Bringing Back The Block Party:
Supporting Davie Village and Vancouver Pride Celebrations.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Subsequently, following the conclusion of Members’ Motion 1, and prior to introducing Members’
Motion 2. “Bringing Back The Block Party: Supporting Davie Village and Vancouver Pride
Celebrations,” Chair Meiszner relinquished the Chair to Vice-Chair Dominato.
* * * * *
2. Bringing Back The Block Party: Supporting Davie Village and Vancouver Pride
Celebrations
The Committee heard from three speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Davie Village is widely considered to be the heart of Metro Vancouver’s
2SLGBTQIA+ community and is known nationwide as an inclusive, vibrant and
caring neigbourhood of residents, shops, and services;

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 6
2. The community is the centre of the Vancouver Pride Parade, which started in
1978 as a protest march, ahead of the city’s first officially permitted parade in
1981;
3. The Vancouver Pride Parade and Festival is one of the city’s most highly
anticipated events, attracting over 100,000 attendees, and generating millions in
economic impact;
4. The Davie Street Promenade (previously Davie Street Block Party) was regularly
held by the Vancouver Pride Society for many years in the village, prior to the
COVID-19 pandemic; It was last hosted in 2019;
5. It included a full street closure of Davie Street from Burrard Street to Jervis Street
for Pride weekend, and featured performance stages supporting a diversity of
talent from the queer community, local community merchants, entertainment,
licensed areas for alcohol consumption, and more;
6. A group of leading community organizations including the Vancouver Pride
Society, Qmunity, West End BIA and local small businesses have formed a
working group to return the Davie Street Block Party to the West End in 2025 on
Pride weekend; and
7. The working group is seeking city and council support to bring back the Davie
Street Block Party in 2025, with proceeds going to the Vancouver Pride Society
and Qmunity, to support their vital initiatives and work in the 2SLGBTQIA+
community.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to seek to work with the West End BIA, Vancouver Pride
Society and Qmunity, as well as relevant stakeholders such as TransLink and the
Vancouver Police, to initiate a full street closure of Davie Street from Burrard to Jervis
Streets on Saturday and Sunday of Pride weekend in 2025, to host the Davie Street
Block Party, with the intention to continue the street closure for Pride weekend in 2026 if
successful, and report back to council on discussions with stakeholders by end of
Q1 2025.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10543)
* * * * *
Following the vote on Members’ Motion 2. “Bringing Back The Block Party: Supporting Davie
Village and Vancouver Pride Celebrations,” Chair Meiszner resumed the role of Chair.
The Committee recessed at 12:23 pm and reconvened at 1:19 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 7
3. Temporarily Pausing Net-New Supportive Housing Investments in Vancouver to
Prioritize Replacing Existing Stock and Promoting Regional Equity
The Committee heard from six speakers who spoke in support of the motion, 67 speakers who
spoke in opposition to the motion and two speakers who spoke to other aspects of the motion.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, the Chair reminded and cautioned speakers to keep comments
germane and respectful to the motion being considered per section 7.8 of the Procedure By-law.
Subsequently, at 4:51 pm, while continuing to hear from speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT per section 2.8 (b) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee extend the meeting
past 5 pm in order to complete the business.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following be added:
FURTHER THAT the Committee take a 15-minute recess following the
conclusion of hearing from speakers for Members’ Motion 3. “Temporarily
Pausing Net-New Supportive Housing Investments in Vancouver to Prioritize
Replacing Existing Stock and Promoting Regional Equity,” before continuing with
the business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
The amendment having carried unanimously, the motion as amended to extend the meeting
past 5 pm per section 2.8 of the Procedure By-law was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AND BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY.
The Committee recessed at 5:27 pm and reconvened at 5:43 pm.
At 6:17 pm, during debate, Chair Meiszner relinquished the Chair to Vice-Chair Dominato in
order to provide comments and resumed the Chair once done.
* * * * *

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 8
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver has long taken a leadership role in providing supportive housing,
recognizing that safe, stable, and dignified housing is a fundamental necessity for
individuals facing homelessness, mental health challenges, and substance use
disorders;
2. Despite representing only 25% of the regional population, Vancouver is home to
over 77% of the region’s supportive housing and more than 67% of its shelter
spaces, pointing to a significant resource gap regionally for people wishing to
remain in their home communities and be able to access local support services;
3. Vancouver’s current low-income housing stock includes aging Single Room
Occupancy (SRO) buildings which are rapidly deteriorating and often failing to
meet basic standards of safety and dignity;
4. Many of the city’s SROs (those with and those without direct supportive services)
are plagued by hazardous conditions such as broken elevators, unsanitary
environments, garbage accumulation, and infestations, leaving residents in
unlivable circumstances that compromise their well-being, signaling an urgent
need to replace aging, unlivable SRO units with new supportive housing;
5. For the purposes of this motion, supportive housing refers specifically to low
barrier supportive housing for individuals experiencing, or at risk of,
homelessness and with severe mental health challenges and/or substance use
disorders, including 24/7 on-site support services. For clarity, this motion does
not refer to Social Housing where occasional supports are provided to ensure
households maintain their tenancies;
6. Although there is no firm estimate of how many SRO buildings in the city
currently fail to meet the basic standards of safety and dignity, the number is
known to be significant and threatens to push even more people into
homelessness. For example, VFRS reported 326 structure fires in SRO buildings
last year, and the DTES figures prominently among the six neighbourhoods in
the city at the highest risk in an earthquake;
7. The Province has recognized that Vancouver cannot address these crises alone
and has committed to a comprehensive response plan for the DTES, including
investments in mental health and addiction recovery services. In 2022, Premier
Eby stated: "The crisis in the Downtown Eastside is well beyond what the city of
Vancouver can take on, on their own;"
8. Supportive housing is meant to provide stability, care, and a path forward, and
although Vancouver continues to invest in supportive housing, there is an urgent

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 9
need for other municipalities to step up and share in the responsibility of
providing housing and care for those in need across the region;
9. In addition to an urgent need to replace the city’s aging SRO and supportive
housing stock, there is a parallel need to replace the city’s Temporary Modular
Housing (TMH) units with permanent, quality, purpose-built supportive housing,
to ensure safe, dignified living conditions for Vancouver’s most vulnerable
residents;
10. A more balanced, regional approach to supportive housing would allow
individuals experiencing homelessness to access stable housing in their own
communities, closer to family, cultural connections, and local services, rather
than being displaced to Vancouver; and
11. By prioritizing the replacement of unsafe, unfit, or temporary housing in
Vancouver with dignified, livable homes, and by urging a fairer regional
approach, Vancouver can ensure that those suffering the most receive the safe,
stable housing they desperately need.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. That Council direct staff to temporarily pause any City contributions of land or
funding for homelessness response supportive housing developments—except
for projects focused on replacing existing SRO buildings or TMH projects—until
progress is made in increasing the supply of homelessness response supportive
housing across the region;
FURTHER THAT this temporary pause does not encompass nor impact:
• Any City-supported supportive housing projects currently in-stream or that
have already received funding confirmation from senior government or
the City;
• Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) projects associated with the delivery of
Road to Recovery continuum or health-care related housing or
residentially based health care such as complex care housing or long-
term care;
• Future proposed supportive housing projects that represent a
replacement of existing supportive housing projects, including any density
added to existing supportive Housing sites;
• Supportive housing for seniors, women and families, and youth ageing
out of care;
• Social Housing where occasional supports are provided to ensure
households maintain their tenancies; and
• Any applications received by the City within 6 months of passage of this
motion.
B. THAT Council confirm for the provincial and federal government that its priorities
for new homelessness response supportive housing investments in Vancouver
are to accelerate the replacement of unlivable SROs, and temporary modular

Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 10
housing, until meaningful progress is made in increasing supportive housing
stock across the region;
FURTHER THAT Council request the Mayor write a letter to the provincial and
federal governments urging them to increase investments in mental health care,
addiction recovery, to address the root causes of homelessness and suffering.
C. THAT Council direct staff to work with BC Housing to enhance and accelerate
the STEP (Supporting Tenants, Enabling Pathways) program to support people
who are in Supportive Housing but are able to live independently to transition into
Social or rental housing so as to enable those Supportive Housing units to be
assigned to people experiencing homelessness who are in need of that
Supportive Housing.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report every two years on homelessness and
supportive housing development across the region, ensuring accountability and
progress, and offer support to the Province in working with other municipalities to
expand regional supportive housing options.
CARRIED (Vote No. 10544)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato and Fry opposed)
The Committee adjourned at 6:22 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
FEBRUARY 26, 2025
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouverwas held on Wednesday, February 26, 2025,
at 6:22 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Kevin Burris, Manager, Civic Agencies
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, February 26, 2025
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. Potential to Update the Vancouver Building Bylaw to Enable Single Egress Stairs
2. Contract Award for Construction Services for Permanent Plazas
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Consultation with the Ministry of Housing and BC Housing at a Public Meeting
2. Bringing Back The Block Party: Supporting Davie Village and Vancouver Pride
Celebrations
3. Temporarily Pausing Net-New Supportive Housing Investments in Vancouver to Prioritize
Replacing Existing Stock and Promoting Regional Equity

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, February 26, 2025 12
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of February 26, 2025, as contained in Reports 1 and 2
and Council Members’ Motion 1 through 3, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
URGENT BUSINESS
None.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 6:25 pm.
* * * * *