SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
(BUSINESS LICENCE HEARING)
JANUARY 28, 2025
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, January 28,
2025, at 9:37 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose of holding a
Business Licence Hearing to consider the decision of the Chief Licence Inspector to suspend
the 2024 business licence (“Business Licence”) issued to Safana Jetha (the “Licencee”) for
business premises located at 3470 Prince Edward Street, Vancouver, British Columbia (the
“Premises”). This Special Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as
authorized by Part 14 of the Procedure By-law and the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Chair
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Pete Fry
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Cassia Nasralla, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
1. Business Licence No. 24-159505 (Short Term Rental)
3470 Prince Edward Street
The Business Licence Hearing Panel had before it for consideration an Evidence Brief,
prepared by the City of Vancouver’s Legal Services Department, which contained the following
material (on file in the City Clerk’s Office) and the evidence of witnesses:
Tab Description Page
1. Letter from City Clerk enclosing Notice of Hearing 1
2. Timeline of events 4
3. Property Report 5
4. Short Term Rental Operator details 7
5. Audit 9
• Audit Notification Letter
• Audit documents
• Booking Calendar for June 2023-December 2024

Special Council Meeting (Business Licence Hearing)
Minutes, Tuesday, January 28, 2025 2
6. May 22, 2024 Property Inspection 32
• Notes
• Photographs of property
7. June 6, 2024 STR Licence Audit Meeting 59
• Notes
• Post-Meeting Questionnaire
• Post Meeting Documents
8. Suspension 95
• Letter of Suspension
• Letter from counsel for the Licencee
• Email thread: Suspension upheld post-meeting
9. Licence By-Law No. 4450, section 28.1 212
Robert LeBlanc, Litigation Counsel, Legal Services, was present on behalf of the City of
Vancouver. Safana Jetha, the Licencee, was present and accompanied by Arash Ehteshami,
Lawyer at Bright Law, the Licencee’s Counsel.
Mr. LeBlanc provided opening remarks and reviewed relevant legislation as set out in section
275 of the Vancouver Charter and section 28.1 of Licence By-law No. 4450.
In support of the allegations set out in the evidence brief, Mr. LeBlanc called Sarah Hicks, Chief
Licence Inspector as a witness for the City of Vancouver.
Mr. LeBlanc along with Panel members directed questions to the City’s witness.
The Licencee’s Counsel also directed questions to the City’s witness.
The Licencee’s Counsel provided opening remarks and responded to the allegations submitted
by the City’s witness.
The Licencee’s Counsel called the following witnesses:
• Safana Jetha, the Licencee
• Imran Hirani, spouse of the Licencee
Safana Jetha and Imran Hirani responded to questions from Mr. LeBlanc.
Mr. LeBlanc provided closing submissions based on the evidence and reviewed the reasons for
the business licence suspension.
The Licencee’s Counsel provided closing submissions.

Special Council Meeting (Business Licence Hearing)
Minutes, Tuesday, January 28, 2025 3
PANEL MEMBERS DISCUSSION
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Business Licence Hearing Panel uphold the decision of the Chief Licence
Inspector to suspend the 2024 business licence (“Business Licence”) issued to Safana
Jetha (the “Licencee”) on the basis that the evidence presented does not establish the
property at 3470 Prince Edward Street as a Principal Residence, as defined by the City
as the usual dwelling unit where an individual lives, makes their home and conducts their
daily affairs, and is a condition of their short term rental business licence.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10489)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Business Licence Hearing Panel adjourned at 11:10 am.
* * * * *