receererere
REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
NOVEMBER 26, 2025
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, November 26, 2025, at 9:40 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
This Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by the
Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Peter Meiszner, Chair* (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – 9:30 am to 1 pm)
Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato, Vice Chair
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney*
Councillor Brian Montague*
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Vice Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish,
and Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Vice Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team
members who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and
play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Committee adopt Reports 3 and 7, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Meiszner absent for the vote)
REPORTS
1. FIFA World Cup 2026 By-law
November 4, 2025
Staff from the City Manager’s Office responded to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT under section 5.4(e) of the Procedure By-law, Council be permitted to ask a
second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle temporary amendments to and relaxations of
the Building By-law, Graffiti By-law, Noise Control By-law, Sign By-law, Street and
Traffic By-law, Street Vending By-law, and Ticket Offences By-law, all as
described in Appendix A of the Report dated November 4, 2025, entitled “FIFA
World Cup 2026 By-law” to support the City of Vancouver’s role as a Host City for
FIFA World Cup 2026 Vancouver (FWC26).
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment a time-bound FIFA World Cup 2026 By-law that includes the
amendments and relaxations described above, generally in accordance with the
by-laws attached in Appendix A of the Report dated November 4, 2025, entitled
“FIFA World Cup 2026 By-law”.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back with amendments to authorize the

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 3
relaxation of the Zoning and Development By-law to support Vancouver’s role as
a FWC26 Host City, at a later date.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11168)
(Councillor Fry abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Meiszner absent for the vote)
2. Patio Program Updates
October 3, 2025
Staff from Engineering Services provided a presentation and responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the proposed updates to the Patio Program as outlined in
this Report dated October 3, 2025, entitled “Patio Program Updates”.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Street Vending By-law to
change patio names;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the Street Vending By-law generally in accordance
with the draft by-law attached in Appendix A of the Report dated October 3, 2025,
entitled “Patio Program Updates”.
C. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Vancouver Building
By-law to exempt certain decks and lightweight structures for patios from the
requirement to obtain a building permit; and to exempt ancillary outdoor seating
on patios from the requirement to include patio seats in the building washroom
capacity calculation, provided that sufficient interior washroom capacity already
exists, generally as provided in Appendix B of the Report dated October 3, 2025,
entitled “Patio Program Updates”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the Building By-law generally in accordance with the
draft by-law attached in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following be added to the end of A:
and direct staff from Engineering Services, Development Building, and Licensing
(DBL), and the Business and Economy Office (BEO) to work jointly to develop a

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 4
simplified and coordinated patio permitting framework that consolidates
guidelines, timelines, approvals, and design requirements into one
interdepartmental process, including a single point of applicant interface, and
report back to Council by the end of January 2026 with the proposed framework
and implementation plan;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to evaluate existing patio pilot programs as
a part of the January 2026 report back with recommendations to either make
current pilots permanent or bring them to a conclusion;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to develop a visual design template for
a minimum standard patio that provides clarity for businesses and reduces
reliance on case-by-case review to ensure predictability and long-term regulatory
stability for businesses.
FURTHER THAT the following be added as D:
THAT Council direct staff to report back by the end of January 2026 with the
required by-law and policy amendments to eliminate the Development Permit
requirement for seasonal, unenclosed patio structures, consistent with concerns
raised through the Vancouver Business Growth Taskforce.
Prior to the vote, the Committee agreed to separate the components of the amendment. The
amendment was put with the third clause of A having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.
11170) with Councillor Kirby-Yung abstaining from the vote and Councillors Maloney and
Meiszner absent for the vote, and the addition to the first clause of A, the second clause of A,
and D having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11171) with Councillors Maloney and
Meiszner absent for the vote.
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11172), with Councillors Maloney and Meiszner absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve the proposed updates to the Patio Program as outlined in
this report and direct staff from Engineering Services, Development Building, and
Licensing (DBL), and the Business and Economy Office (BEO) to work jointly to
develop a simplified and coordinated patio permitting framework that
consolidates guidelines, timelines, approvals, and design requirements into one
interdepartmental process, including a single point of applicant interface, and
report back to Council by the end of January 2026 with the proposed framework
and implementation plan;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to evaluate existing patio pilot programs as
a part of the January 2026 report back with recommendations to either make
current pilots permanent or bring them to a conclusion;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to develop a visual design template for
a minimum standard patio that provides clarity for businesses and reduces

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 5
reliance on case-by-case review to ensure predictability and long-term regulatory
stability for businesses.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Street Vending By-law to
change patio names;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the Street Vending By-law generally in accordance
with the draft by-law attached in Appendix A of the Report dated October 3,
2025, entitled “Patio Program Updates”.
C. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Vancouver Building
Bylaw to exempt certain decks and lightweight structures for patios from the
requirement to obtain a building permit; and to exempt ancillary outdoor seating
on patios from the requirement to include patio seats in the building washroom
capacity calculation, provided that sufficient interior washroom capacity already
exists, generally as provided in Appendix B of the Report dated October 3, 2025,
entitled “Patio Program Updates”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the Building By-law generally in accordance with the
draft by-law attached in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back by the end of January 2026 with the
required by-law and policy amendments to eliminate the Development Permit
requirement for seasonal, unenclosed patio structures, consistent with concerns
raised through the Vancouver Business Growth Taskforce.
3. Contract Award for Supply of Employee and Family Assistance Plan Services
October 28, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
Chief Human Resources Officer, City’s Director of Legal Services, and the City’s
Chief Procurement Officer and enter into a contract with Homewood Health Inc.
(“HHI”) under which HHI will provide Employee and Family Assistance Plan
services for an initial term of (3) three-years with an estimated contract value of
$1,122,076 plus applicable taxes, with the option to extend for (6) six additional
(1) one- year terms, with an estimated contract value of $3,570,983, plus
applicable taxes over the entire term of the contract to be funded through the
operating budget.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and Chief Human
Resources Officer;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 6
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s
approval of A and B unless and until the City executes and delivers the
Agreement.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11179)
(Councillor Meiszner absent for the vote)
4. Contract Award for Tree Removal and Associated Services in Stanley Park
October 28, 2025
Staff from Finance and Supply Chain Management responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement with Blackwell
Consulting Ltd. (“BCL”), under which BCL will provide tree removal and
associated services in Stanley Park, with an estimated total contract value of
$4,504,221 over an initial 1.5-year term and a 1-year optional extension term (the
“Agreement”), to be funded from Park Board Operating Budget.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of
the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation;
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s
approval of A and B unless and until the City executes and delivers the
Agreement.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11173)
(Councillors Fry and Orr abstained)
(Councillors Maloney and Meiszner absent for the vote)
5. 2025 Community Services and Other Grants
October 28, 2025
Staff from Arts, Culture, and Community Services responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
Operating and Capital Grants

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 7
A. THAT Council approve eight Social Innovation Project (SIP) Anti-Black Racism
Grants, totalling $100,000, from the 2025 Social Policy Grants Operating budget
to the organizations listed in Appendix A-1 of the Report dated October 28, 2025,
entitled “2025 Community Services and Other Grants” for the amounts
recommended for each organization in the "2025 Recommend" column of the
same report.
B. THAT Council approve one School Food Grant of $325,000 from the 2025 Social
Policy Grants Operating budget ($20,000) and the 2025 Social Policy & Projects
Operating Budget ($305,000) to the Board of Education School District No. 39
Vancouver dba The Vancouver School Board, subject to the conditions outlined
in Appendix B of the Report dated October 28, 2025, entitled “2025 Community
Services and Other Grants”.
C. THAT Council approve six One-Time Project Grants totalling $220,283 from the
2025 Social Policy Grants Operating budget to the organizations listed in
Appendix C-1 of the Report dated October 28, 2025, entitled “2025 Community
Services and Other Grants” for the amounts recommended to each organization
in the "2025 Recommend" column of the same report;
FURTHER THAT Council approve the reallocation of $30,000 previously
approved from the 2024 Social Policy Grants Operating budget as described in
Appendix C-2 of the above-noted report, to the organization listed in Appendix
C-2 of the same report.
D. THAT Council approve two Childcare Operating Grants through 2 grant streams
totalling $43,916 from the 2025 Social Policy Grants Operating budget –
Childcare, to the organizations listed in Appendices D-1 and D-2 of the Report
dated October 28, 2025, entitled “2025 Community Services and Other Grants” ,
for the amounts recommended for each organization in the “2025 Recommend”
column of the same report;
FURTHER THAT Council approve the reallocation of $22,000 previously
approved from the 2025 Social Policy Grants Operating budget – Childcare as
described in Appendix D-4 of the above-noted report, to the organization listed in
Appendix D-4 of the same report.
E. THAT Council approve three Social Policy Small-Medium Capital Grants totalling
$55,525 from the 2025 Social Policy Capital Grants budget to the organizations
listed in Appendix E-1 of the Report dated October 28, 2025, entitled “2025
Community Services and Other Grants” for the amounts recommended for each
organization in the "2025 Recommend" column of the same report.
F. THAT Council approve three Childcare Small Capital Grants totalling $150,000
from the 2025 Small Capital Grants for Non-City Owned Childcare budget
($50,000) to the organizations listed in Appendix F-1 of the Report dated October
28, 2025, entitled “2025 Community Services and Other Grants”, and from the
2025 Social Infrastructure Grants - Climate budget ($100,000) to the
organizations listed in Appendix F-2 of the above-noted report, for the amounts
recommended to each organization in the "2025 Recommend" column of the

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 8
same report.
G. THAT Council approve two School Aged Care Expansion Capital Grants totalling
$54,735 from the 2025 ACCS School Aged Expansion Grants budget to the
organizations listed in Appendix G of the Report dated October 28, 2025, entitled
“2025 Community Services and Other Grants” for the amounts recommended to
each organization in the "2025 Recommend" column of the same report.
H. THAT Council approve one Building Safer Communities Program (BSCP) Youth
Engagement Project Grant of $10,000, to the organization listed in Appendix H of
the Report dated October 28, 2025, entitled “2025 Community Services and
Other Grants”. Source of funds is the federal Building Safer Communities
Program Fund from Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Canada.
I. THAT Council approve one grant of $60,000 to Good Night Out Vancouver
Association as described in Appendix I of the Report dated October 28, 2025,
entitled “2025 Community Services and Other Grants” from the 2025 Social
Policy & Projects Operating Budget.
J. THAT Council approve, in advance of the 2026 operating budget, one grant of
$6,379,789 to Vancouver Coastal Health Authority (VCH) as described in
Appendix J of the Report dated October 28, 2025, entitled “2025 Community
Services and Other Grants” from the 2026 Social Policy Grants Operating
budget, to continue implementation of VCH’s Urgent Mental Health and
Substance Use Service Enhancements Framework Program.
K. THAT Council approve one grant of $270,000 to Atira Women’s Resource
Society as described in Appendix K of the Report dated October 28, 2025,
entitled “2025 Community Services and Other Grants”, to support continuation of
the Oppenheimer Park Field House Washroom Monitoring Program through
December 31, 2026. Source of funds is the 2025 General Government Operating
budget.
Other Applicable Recommendations
L. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization listed in Appendices A to K of the Report dated October 28,
2025, entitled “2025 Community Services and Other Grants” that is not otherwise
a registered charity with Canada Revenue Agency to be contributing to the health
and welfare of the City.
M. THAT Council delegate its authority to the General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services to negotiate and execute agreements to disburse the grants
described in A to K above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such
other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager of Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal Services.
N. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A to K above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 9
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND A to K
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11174)
(Councillors Meiszner and Montague absent for the vote)
6. Business Improvement Area (BIA) Renewals 2026
October 28, 2025
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke to other aspects of the report
recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
Dunbar Village BIA – Renewal:
A1. THAT Council confirm the Dunbar Village Business Association as the sponsor
for the Dunbar Village BIA.
A2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to renew the
Dunbar Village BIA, for a further term (5 years) commencing April 1, 2026;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Dunbar Village Business
Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
A3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area (outlined in
Appendix A) of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
A4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2026-2031) funding ceiling of $1,049,425 for the
Dunbar Village BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.
Hastings Crossing BIA – Renewal:
B1. THAT Council confirm the Hastings Crossing Business Improvement Association
as the sponsor for the Hastings Crossing BIA.
B2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to renew the
Hastings Crossing BIA, for a further term (5 years) commencing April 1, 2026;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Hastings Crossing
Business Improvement Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
B3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area (outlined in
Appendix B) of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
B4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2026-2031) funding ceiling of $1,833,404 for the
Hastings Crossing BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 10
Kerrisdale BIA – Renewal:
C1. THAT Council confirm the Kerrisdale Business Association as the sponsor for the
Kerrisdale BIA.
C2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to renew the
Kerrisdale BIA, for a further term (5 years) commencing April 1, 2026;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Kerrisdale Business
Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
C3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area (outlined in
Appendix C) of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
C4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2026-2031) funding ceiling of $1,991,500 for the
Kerrisdale BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.
Kitsilano 4th Avenue BIA – Renewal:
D1. THAT Council confirm the Kitsilano 4th Avenue Business Association as the
sponsor for the Kitsilano 4th Avenue BIA.
D2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to renew the
Kitsilano 4th Avenue BIA, for a further term (5 years) commencing April 1, 2026;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Kitsilano 4th Avenue
Business Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
D3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area (outlined in
Appendix D) of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
D4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2026-2031) funding ceiling of $5,195,002 for the
Kitsilano 4th Avenue BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.
Mount Pleasant BIA – Renewal for Combined Areas:
E1. THAT Council confirm the Mount Pleasant Commercial Improvement Society as
the sponsor for the Mount Pleasant BIA and Mount Pleasant Expansion BIA.
E2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to renew and
consolidate the Mount Pleasant BIAs, for a further term (5 years) commencing
April 1, 2026;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Mount Pleasant
Commercial Improvement Society to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
E3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area (outlined in
Appendix E) of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
E4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2026-2031) funding ceiling of $5,700,000 for the
Mount Pleasant BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.
West Broadway BIA – Renewal:
F1. THAT Council confirm the West Broadway Business Improvement Association as
the sponsor for the West Broadway BIA.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 11
F2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to renew the
West Broadway BIA, for a further term (5 years) commencing April 1, 2026;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the West Broadway
Business Improvement Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
F3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area (outlined in
Appendix F) of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
F4. THAT Council approve a 5-year (2026-2031) funding ceiling of $2,610,861 for the
West Broadway BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.
West End BIA – Renewal:
G1. THAT Council confirm the Davie Village Business Improvement Association as
the sponsor for the West End BIA.
G2. THAT Council approve the commencement of a Council Initiative to renew the
West End BIA, for a further term (10 years) commencing April 1, 2026;
FURTHER THAT Council forward the application of the Davie Village Business
Improvement Association to a hearing of the Court of Revision.
G3. THAT the City notify property owners and tenants within the area (outlined in
Appendix G) of the proposed BIA renewal and levy.
G4. THAT Council approve a 10-year (2026-2036) funding ceiling of $14,110,831 for
the West End BIA, subject to Council approval of the renewal.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11175)
(Councillor Meiszner absent for the vote)
7. Vancouver Technical Secondary School Synthetic Turf Joint Use Agreement –
Custody, Care and Management of Land
October 28, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the City of Vancouver (the “City”) to enter into a license
and operating agreement (the “Joint Use Agreement”) with The Board of
Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) (“VSB”), whereby the City, as
represented by the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation (the “Park Board”)
and VSB will jointly use and operate the synthetic turf field (the “Field”) at the
Vancouver Technical Secondary School, based upon the key terms and
conditions outlined in Appendix B of the Report dated October 28, 2025, entitled
“Vancouver Technical Secondary School Synthetic Turf Joint Use Agreement –
Custody, Care and Management of Land” and upon such other terms and
conditions to the satisfaction of the City’s Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Park Board.
B. THAT Council resolves, pursuant to Section 488(3) of the Vancouver Charter,

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 12
that the VSB lands so held by the City, pursuant to the Joint Use Agreement,
shall be in the custody, care and management of the Park Board for the full term
of the Joint Use Agreement.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11180)
(Councillor Meiszner absent for the vote)
8a. New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus – Road Establishments
October 28, 2025
Staff from Engineering Services responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the establishment as street of the following City-owned parcels of
land in support of the New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus road network:
• All of 410 Prior Street, legally described as: [PID: 010-813-209]; Lot 8,
District Lots 181, 196 and 2037, Plan 6780 (the “Dunlevy Connection”);
• A 695.4 square-metre (7485 square-foot) portion of the north-end of
Trillium Park at 580 Malkin Avenue, legally described as: [PID: 025-467-
743]; Part of Lot G, District Lots 196 and 2037, Group 1, New
Westminster District, Plan BCP802 (the “Malkin Connection”);
the same as shown on the sketch attached as Appendix A in the Report dated
November 26, 2025, entitled “New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus – Road
Establishments.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11176)
(Councillor Meiszner absent for the vote)
8b. New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus – Road Establishments
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT WHEREAS:
1. The City of Vancouver is the owner of all streets and lanes lying within the limits
of the City of Vancouver;
2. The registered owner, the City of Vancouver, wishes to establish two parcels of
land for road purposes in the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia,

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 13
more particularly known and described as follows:
a. Parcel Identifier: 010-813-209
Lot 8, District Lots 181, 196 and 2037, Plan 6780;
b. Parcel Identifier: _____________
That Part of Lot G, District Lots 196 and 2037, Group 1, New Westminster
District, Plan BCP802 Shown on Reference Plan EPP123872;
AND WHEREAS it is deemed expedient and in the public interest to allocate the said
lands for road purposes;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT all the above described lands are hereby
allocated for road purposes and declared to form and to constitute a portion or portions
of road.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11177)
(Councillor Meiszner absent for the vote)
* * * * *
Prior to the start of the next item, Vice-Chair Dominato relinquished the Chair to Mayor Sim and
resumed the Chair once the item finished.
* * * * *
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. National Child and Youth Mental Health Day Actions
The Committee heard from two speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. National Child and Youth Mental Health Day is observed annually across Canada
on May 7, a day dedicated to raising awareness about the mental health
challenges faced by children and young people, and to fostering strong,
supportive relationships between youth and the caring adults in their lives;
2. Rates of mental health concerns among children and youth have risen
significantly in recent years, with increasing reports of anxiety, depression, social
isolation, and stress linked to factors such as academic pressures, affordability
challenges, and the lingering social impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 14
3. Early awareness, prevention, and the building of protective connections between
young people and trusted adults are recognized by public health experts as
essential to improving long-term mental health outcomes and resilience;
4. The Children, Youth and Families Advisory Committee (CYFAC), whose
mandate includes advising Council on matters affecting the well-being of
children, youth, and families in Vancouver, considered and passed a motion at its
recent meeting recommending that Council take further action to support youth
mental health awareness and connection;
5. Through that motion, the Committee recommended a set of actions for Council’s
consideration to strengthen public awareness and engagement, and to promote
collaboration among civic and community partners—including Schools,
Community Centres, and Public Libraries—in advance of future observances of
National Child and Youth Mental Health Day; and
6. Supporting youth mental health aligns with the City’s broader commitments to
social equity, inclusion, and community well-being, as reflected in the Healthy
City Strategy and other Council directions.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council acknowledge and thank the Children, Youth and Families Advisory
Committee for its leadership in passing a motion recommending actions to
strengthen youth mental health awareness in Vancouver.
B. THAT Council affirm the City’s commitment to youth mental health and well-being
by annually recognizing National Child and Youth Mental Health Day (May 7)
through an official Proclamation.
C. THAT Council direct staff to consult with the Children, Youth and Families
Advisory Committee and Vancouver Coastal Health on ideas to promote youth
mental health awareness in anticipation of National Child and Youth Mental
Health Day 2026 and implement promotion ideas as feasible.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11178)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 11:49 am and reconvened at 1:02 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 15
2. Promoting Cultural Inclusion and Economic Vitality: Advancing the Main Street
Filipino Cultural Centre and Hotel Project
* * * * *
After Mayor Sim introduced the motion, Councillor Bligh rose on a point of order under Section
8.7 (b) of the Procedure By-law, noting the motion should be out of order as it prejudged the
exercise of Council’s regulatory authority on the two development sites in the motion. After
consulting with staff, the Chair ruled that the motion is in order as it does not conflict with
existing laws and bylaws. Further, the motion does not prejudge Council’s authority, as any new
rezoning application will be considered by Council in a public hearing.
After the ruling on the point of order, Councillor Dominato relinquished the Chair to Councillor
Meiszner.
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm to complete the current item.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
The Committee heard from 81 speakers who spoke in support, 13 speakers who spoke in
opposition, and four speakers who spoke to other aspects of the motion.
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver has prioritized inclusive cultural infrastructure, economic
resilience, and tourism growth through recent strategic documents, including the
Vancouver Plan, the Broadway Plan, and the Economic Development Strategy;
2. The Filipino Canadian community is one of Canada’s largest and most dynamic
diasporas and has long sought a permanent cultural home in Vancouver to
reflect its heritage, identity, and contributions to the City;
3. In June 2023, Vancouver City Council unanimously endorsed a motion entitled
“Support for the Filipino Cultural Centre in Vancouver Campaign” (Vote No.
09335), affirming Council’s support for a Filipino Cultural Centre to serve British
Columbia’s Filipino community. The motion recognized the Centre’s value in
enabling local cultural celebrations and performances, and in helping younger
generations of Filipino Canadians born in Canada remain connected to their
roots. The motion also endorsed Vancouver as a desirable location for such a

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 16
centre;
4. The Filipino Legacy Society of Canada has formally been registered under the
provincial Societies Act for the purpose of coordinating and advancing efforts of
the Filipino community toward the establishment of a Filipino Cultural Centre, and
will work in coordination with organizations such as, but not limited to, the United
Filipino Canadian Associations in BC (UFCABC), the Filipino Seniors Club of
British Columbia (FSCBC), the Filipino Seniors Club of British Columbia
(FSCBC), Cebuano Society of Canada, Diversity and Inclusion Support Group of
BC, and the Seniors Intercultural Society of BC; 1
0F
5. A preliminary proposal has now been brought forward, by PortLiving, for a Main
Street Filipino Cultural Centre and dual-tower hotel development that spans two
sites in the Mount Pleasant neighbourhood, 1940 Main Street and 143 East 3rd
Avenue, both of which are situated within a 5-minute walk of the future Mount
Pleasant Broadway Line station;
6. The preliminary proposal includes:
• A Filipino Canadian Cultural Centre, offering language and cooking
classes, event and gallery space, and the largest Filipino art collection
outside the Philippines;
• A dedicated heritage landmark commemorating and honouring Filipino
history and culture;
• 500 much-needed hotel rooms through two internationally affiliated brands
serving both traditional and extended-stay visitors;
• Residential-style hotel suites close to St. Paul’s and Vancouver General
Hospitals to support visiting families and long-stay patients; and
• A privately funded model, with a Letter of Intent in place with an
internationally affiliated brand and no anticipated requirement for City funding;
7. The project presents unique economic development and tourism benefits,
consistent with the Broadway Plan’s intent to strengthen Mount Pleasant Centre
as a vibrant, transit-connected, mixed-use hub for jobs, housing, culture, and
amenities;
8. The project aligns with multiple City priorities, including:
• Delivering cultural and community infrastructure without the use of City funds;
1 Additional Organizations include but are not limited to: One Filipino Cooperative of BC, Fil Cooperative One Housing
Society, Fil-Can Cultural Heritage Society, North Peace Fil-Can Community Bayanihan Assn, Global Multicultural
Affairs Society Canada, Philippine Bagong Pag-Asa of BC, Burnaby Filipino Cultural Society, Dimisilang III
International Artist Group, True North Hinirang Eagles Club.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 17
• Increasing hotel supply and diversity amid a growing accommodation
shortage;
• Advancing Reconciliation and UNDRIP goals through partnerships rooted in
respect, healing, and inclusion;
• Supporting Mount Pleasant’s multicultural identity, where Tagalog is among
the most spoken languages; and
• Strengthening Vancouver’s position as a global cultural and convention
destination;
9. The time-sensitive nature of this hotel project proposal, as per the Letter of Intent
with the internationally affiliated brand, necessitates prompt action by having this
proposal reviewed as a priority by Staff based upon this rare convergence of
opportunity, community alignment, and private-sector commitment; and
10. While one of the towers may impact the Main Street view cone, options exist to
explore amendments to the view cone and massing adjustments through a
review process that recognizes the proposal as a priority project with citywide
benefits.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to prioritize the review of the proposed Main Street
Filipino Cultural Centre and Hotel project across the two sites at 1940 Main
Street and 143 East 3rd Avenue, as well as any recommended amendments to
the Main Street view cone, given its significant cultural, social, economic, and
tourism merits, as well as the time-sensitivity of the proposal.
B. THAT staff be directed to work with the applicant to refine the proposal in a
manner that:
• Respects key view cone objectives to the extent feasible, including
options for re-massing or podium redesign;
• Ensures high-quality urban design and public realm integration,
consistent with the Broadway Plan and Design Guidelines;
• Maintains the applicant’s commitment to deliver the Filipino Cultural
Centre at no cost to the City; and
• Secures the construction and delivery of the Filipino Cultural Centre on
the proposed lands as part of any future rezoning application that may be
brought forward to Council for its consideration.
C. THAT staff be directed to process and prioritize any application for rezoning and
report back on progress no later than Q1 2026, and to bring the application
forward to the earliest available Public Hearing for Council’s consideration and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 18
deliberation.
D. THAT Council direct the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability to engage with the applicant, and other cultural stakeholders to
ensure the Centre’s programming, governance, and design reflect the values of
inclusivity, authenticity, and intergenerational connection.
E. THAT Council direct staff to work with Filipino stakeholders, such as, the Filipino
Legacy Society of Canada to identify a suitable City-owned or City-controlled
property for use as an interim community space, and report back to Council on a
potential location that may be leased to the Filipino Legacy Society at a nominal
lease rate, subject to Council approval of such a lease as a grant.
F. THAT Council direct staff to work in partnership with the Mayor’s Office and the
Filipino Legacy Society of Canada in coordination with other organizations such
as, but not limited to, the National Pilipino Canadian Cultural Centre (NPC3), the
United Filipino Canadian Associations in BC (UFCABC), and the Filipino Seniors
Club of British Columbia (FSCBC), to assemble a transitional working group to
assist with the development of a governance and programming framework for the
Filipino Cultural Centre;
FURTHER THAT the existing agreement between the Filipino Legacy Society
and the project proponent will be disclosed to the transitional working group on a
confidential basis.
referred
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT Council defer decision on A through D, and F for future consideration pending
review of this motion and background information by the City of Vancouver’s Integrity
Commissioner before Q2 2026.
FURTHER THAT Council amend E as follows:
THAT Council direct staff to work with Filipino stakeholders including but not
limited to the Filipino Legacy Society of Canada, NPC3, UFCABC, FSCBC,
Filipino BC, Mabuahy House, and Pinoy Festival Alliance to identify a suitable
City-owned or City-controlled property for use as an interim community space,
and report back to Council on a potential location that may be leased to the
Filipino community at a nominal lease rate, subject to Council approval of such a
lease as a grant.
amended
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 7:21 pm and reconvened at 7:54 pm.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 19
During debate on the amendment, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT Council will go into a meeting immediately after recess, which is closed to the
public, pursuant to Section 165.2 (1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters
related to paragraph:
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Committee recessed at 8:01 pm and reconvened at 9:01 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT TO STRIKE THE AMENDMENT ON THE FLOOR AND REPLACE MOVED by
Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the amendment be struck and replaced with the following:
THAT the motion entitled “Promoting Cultural Inclusion and Economic Vitality:
Advancing the Main Street Filipino Cultural Centre and Hotel Project” be referred
to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services on December 10,
2025,.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11182)
(Councillors Bligh, Fry, and Maloney opposed)
3. Buoying Up a Vibrant Vancouver
The Committee heard from six speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver City Council is committed to supporting and enabling a vibrant
Vancouver that creates a fun city and offers a diversity of activities and
experiences, as well as supporting entrepreneurship, local businesses, and a
strong economy;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 20
2. Vancouver values our Cultural sector. Arts and culture are experiencing
challenging economic times. While Vancouver has committed to maintaining its
grant funding support for the arts, other levels of government are not sustaining
their past levels of funding support, and corporate support and contributions are
also under threat;
3. The Vancouver Maritime Museum showed an operating deficit in 2024 with
projections for another one in 2025. This impacts their ability to create dynamic
exhibits and programming, and to represent the City’s rich maritime history to
locals and tourists alike;
4. Opening up pathways for cultural organizations when unique partnership
opportunities arise can help support longer-term stability. The Vancouver
Maritime Museum has shown exceptional progress in increasing earned revenue
in recent years and has an appetite for proactive business development;
5. Vancouver is also committed to A Healthy City Strategy. Recently, Council has
supported the growing interest in wellness experiences by modernizing
regulations, recognizing the burst in cold plunges establishments and related
offerings;
6. HAVN opened its first floating hydrotherapy facility in Victoria’s Inner Harbour in
2023 reimagining a historic marine experience to connect people with the past,
the sea, and themselves. HAVN reimagined and was built on a reclaimed 1943
WWII naval vessel. HAVN would like to site its second ship and wellness facility
in Vancouver;
7. HAVN offers a people-centred, low-impact waterfront activation — a calm,
wellness-focused experience that creates healthy third spaces for our residents.
The Vancouver Maritime Museum sees strong alignment in welcoming HAVN to
its marina, generating a vital new revenue stream to support the Museum’s
sustainability while introducing a unique, restorative experience on the water that
feels authentically Vancouver;
8. Introducing an innovative, low-impact wellness destination like HAVN would help
strengthen the city’s visitor economy while contributing to a more vibrant City.
HAVN offers the type of modest, thoughtfully designed experience that supports
waterfront vitality without creating significant traffic, noise, or operational
impacts;
9. In addition to HAVN’s Victoria location, benchmarks and successful facilities
include Loyly in Helsinki, Salt in Oslo and Bota Bota in Montreal;
10. It has been years since Vancouver has welcomed a significant new tourism
attraction. Having an innovator and experience like HAVN locate here will also
help buoy Vancouver’s visitor economy;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 21
11. Other municipalities are finding ways to welcome new experiences and
overcoming red tape to make that happen, as a result they are landing new
attractions at Vancouver’s expense. Losing this opportunity would mean loss of
moorage revenue that would support sustaining the Vancouver Maritime
Museum, advancement of Council’s goals, and related benefits and
improvements for the city-owned dock and the marina; and
12. This will also bolster Vancouver’s existing waterfront amenities and institutions in
the existing museum district in Kitsilano as one of the city’s hidden gems. The
Heritage Harbour marina is an ideal location on Vancouver’s waterfront
complementing the adjacent H.R. Macmillan Space Centre, Museum of
Vancouver and new Senakw development, and is well served with an existing
parking lot and water ferry service from False Creek Ferries.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council expresses its support for the Vancouver Maritime Museum’s
partnership opportunity with HAVN Sauna Inc. and direct staff to work with the
Vancouver Maritime Museum and HAVN to support the potential addition of a
HAVN Saunas vessel and wellness experience to the Museum’s leased and
managed water lot and marina, by identifying the simplest process to enable this
opportunity to move forward.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11183)
4. Right of First Refusal: Building Pathways to Affordable Non-Market Housing
The Committee heard from five speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council extend the meeting past 10 pm to complete the remaining agenda items.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 22
WHEREAS
1. Rents in Vancouver are rising faster than wages, pushing residents out of the
city. Existing affordable market rental buildings are being sold off and
redeveloped, or otherwise lost, displacing long-term tenants and driving average
rents up;
2. Market housing is not meeting the needs of low and moderate income residents,
with the most recent census showing that market rate housing is out of the reach
of 71% of the population;
3. Publicly owned, permanently affordable, non-profit, social, and co-operative
housing offers long-term stability and affordability for tenants;
4. Tenants have the right to housing stability, dignity, and agency in decisions
affecting their homes, but they currently lack powers to formally collectively
bargain, and face practical barriers and no institutional support to purchase the
buildings in communities they love and call home;
5. Other cities including Montreal, Quebec and Washington, DC have implemented
Right of First Refusal and Tenant Opportunity to Purchase policies to protect
housing and create more non-profit and social housing, including programs that
empower tenants, non-profits, and cities to protect rental housing that goes up for
sale for public benefit;
6. Tenant Opportunity to Purchase programs can empower tenants to remain in
their housing by extending a right of first refusal to tenants, strengthening
communities and preventing displacement;
7. Tools to protect existing non-profit land use for affordable and social housing can
ensure lasting public benefit, and empower Vancouver to protect and deliver
more affordable housing for people over the long term;
8. Tools to transform market housing into publicly-owned social housing or tenant-
owned co-operative housing is a pathway to more affordable housing options and
meeting Vancouver’s housing goals;
9. Programs to aid and support tenants in the co-purchase and ownership of
existing housing as co-operatives can enhance tenant rights, protect affordable
housing stock from redevelopment, and make it more affordable to produce
social housing;
10. Vancouver’s Draft Official Development Plan (ODP) calls to address speculation,
significantly increase the supply of social and supportive housing, work with

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 23
indigenous partners to support Indigenous housing models, and become a city
for renters that mitigates displacement; and
11. Vancouver should lead the world in pathways to affordable housing including a
Public Land Strategy that includes a robust Right of First Refusal policy.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council directs staff to return with
recommendations on a Public Land Strategy to strengthen the City’s ability to secure
and retain land for public benefit to preserve and expand the long-term use of land for
affordable housing and other essential non-profit community purposes. This strategy will
use regulatory, financial, and legal tools to prevent the loss of social, cultural, and
public-serving land vulnerable to speculative redevelopment. Including, but not limited to:
A. Identification of zoning and land use mechanisms to secure land for
permanent affordable housing, including social housing-exclusive zoning
districts, incentives tied to long-term non-market use covenants, and
other legal tools to restrict conversion to market use.
B. Recommendations on establishing a Tenant Opportunity to Purchase
policy to give tenants the ability to turn their rental buildings into co-
operatives.
C. Recommendations on establishing a city-wide right of first refusal for the
City, non-profit housing providers, Indigenous governments, and other
public bodies for use as affordable non-market housing.
D. Recommendations on establishing a right of first refusal for non-profit
housing providers, Indigenous governments, and public bodies to
purchase properties currently used for social housing, faith-based
services, community centres, and other non-profit functions to ensure
continuity of public-serving use.
E. Development of City-supported financial instruments such as low-interest
loans, land leases, land trusts, equity partnerships, or acquisition funds to
enable tenant collectives and non-profit co-operatives to purchase their
buildings with the goal of growing community-owned affordable housing.
F. Recommendations on pathways to more affordable non-market housing
with the City’s current authority, and places where legislative change or
partnerships with senior governments or other public bodies would make
that work more successful.
LOST (Vote No. 11184)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou, and Mayor Sim
opposed)
The Committee adjourned at 10:11 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
NOVEMBER 26, 2025
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, November 26, 2025,
at 10:11 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee
on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, November 26, 2025
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. FIFA World Cup 2026 By-law
2. Patio Program Updates
3. Contract Award for Supply of Employee and Family Assistance Plan Services
4. Contract Award for Tree Removal and Associated Services in Stanley Park
5. 2025 Community Services and Other Grants
6. Business Improvement Areas (BIA) Renewals 2026
7. Vancouver Technical Secondary School Synthetic Turf Joint Use Agreement
8a. New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus – Road Establishments
8b. Resolution – New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus – Road Establishments

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 2
Council Members’ Motions:
1. National Child and Youth Mental Health Day Actions
2. Promoting Cultural Inclusion and Economic Vitality: Advancing the Main Street Filipino
Cultural Centre and Hotel Project
3. Buoying Up a Vibrant Vancouver
4. Right of First Refusal: Building Pathways to Affordable Non-Market Housing
Reports 1 to 7, 8(a) and (b), and Council Members’ Motions 1 to 4
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of November 26, 2025, as contained in Reports 1 to 7,
8(a) and (b), and Council Members’ Motions 1 to 4, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
At the Council meeting on November 25, 2025, Council referred the Adoption of Minutes for the
Special Council (Housing Target Progress Report) on November 13, 2025, to the Council
meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
November 26, 2025, as Unfinished Business.
1. Adoption of Minutes - Special Council (Housing Target Progress Report) – November
13, 2025
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Housing Target Progress Report) meeting of
November 13, 2025, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. 2026 FIFA World Cup By-law (By-law No. 14514)

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, November 26, 2025 3
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 10:14 pm.
* * * * *