REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 13, 2024
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, November 13, 2024, at 9:34 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
This Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by Part
14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Lenny Zhou, Chair
Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
ABSENT: Councillor Christine Boyle (Leave of Absence – Personal
Reasons)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged that we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish,
and Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
* * * * *
Prior to considering the matters on consent, Councillor Montague rose to declare a conflict of
interest on Report 7 under Section 145.2(2) of the Vancouver Charter due to being a family
member of the contractor.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council adopt Reports 1 to 10 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Montague ineligible to vote on Report 7 due to conflict of interest)
REPORTS
1. 2024 Cultural Grants (Equity, Indigenous, Individual Artists, Cultural Spaces,
Chinatown)
October 15, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve 13 Cultural Equity grants totalling $340,264 from the 2024
Cultural Grants Operating Budget to the organizations listed in Appendix A of the
Report dated October 15, 2024, entitled “2024 Cultural Grants (Equity,
Indigenous, Individual Artists, Cultural Spaces, Chinatown)”, and for the amounts
recommended for each organization in the “Grant Recommendation” column in
Appendix A of the above-noted Report.
B. THAT Council approve eight Cultural Indigenous grants totalling $355,000
($280,000 from the 2024 Cultural Grants Operating Budget and $75,000 from the
2024 Arts and Culture operating budget) to the organizations listed in Appendix A
of the Report dated October 15, 2024, entitled “2024 Cultural Grants (Equity,
Indigenous, Individual Artists, Cultural Spaces, Chinatown)”, and for the amounts
recommended for each organization in the “Grant Recommendation” column in
Appendix A of the above-noted Report.
C. THAT Council approve a grant of $60,000 from the 2024 Cultural Grants
Operating Budget to The ArtStarts in Schools Society for renewal and delivery of
the Creative Spark Vancouver program, which supports diverse artists working
with youth.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 3
D. THAT Council approve one Affordable Spaces grant of $24,116 to 110 Arts
Co-operative from the 2024 Cultural Grants Operating Budget.
E. THAT Council approve a Making Space for Arts and Culture capital grant of
$250,000 to the Eastside Arts Society to support multi-year advancement of an
Eastside Arts District, from the False Creek Amenity Share and Density Reserve.
F. THAT, subject to the approval of E above, Council approve an increase to the
2023-2026 Capital Plan and the Multi-Year Capital Project Budget for the Cultural
Spaces Grants program by $250,000, to be funded from the False Creek Amenity
Share and Density Reserve.
G. THAT Council approve a grant of $30,000 to the Vancouver Chinatown BIA
Society (VCBIA) from the Great Beginnings Fund to support a process to develop
advice to the City on a draft vision and program for an economic development
pilot project for Chinatown Plaza, in support of key goals in the Chinatown
Cultural District Framework.
H. THAT Council delegate its authority to the City’s General Manager, Arts, Culture,
and Community Services (or their designate) to execute grant agreements that
include terms and conditions that are consistent with this report, that satisfy the
City’s General Manager, Arts, Culture, and Community Services (or their
designate) and the City’s Director, Legal Services, and disburse the grants as
described in the Report dated October 15, 2024, entitled “2024 Cultural Grants
(Equity, Indigenous, Individual Artists, Cultural Spaces, Chinatown)”.
I. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of these Recommendations unless and until all legal documentation has been
executed and delivered by the respective parties.
J. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization listed in Appendix A and Appendix B of the Report dated
October 15, 2024, entitled “2024 Cultural Grants (Equity, Indigenous, Individual
Artists, Cultural Spaces, Chinatown)”, that is not otherwise a registered charity
with Canada Revenue Agency, to be contributing to the culture of Vancouver.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 10317)
2. Vancouver Community Sport Event Grants – Fall 2024 Intake
October 24, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approves 20 Vancouver Community Sport Event Grants totalling
$123,500 from the 2024 Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Program Budget
to the organizations listed in Table 1 of this Report dated October 24, 2024,
entitled “Vancouver Community Sport Event Grants – Fall 2024 Intake”, under

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 4
column entitled “Organization” and for the amount set out beside their name in
the column entitled “Grant Recommended”.
B. THAT the grants in A above be subject to each grant recipient agreeing to the
terms and conditions of the City’s Community Sport Hosting Grant Program as
outlined in this Report dated October 24, 2024, entitled “Vancouver Community
Sport Event Grants – Fall 2024 Intake” and otherwise satisfactory to the Director,
Destination Events and Tourism or their designate and the City’s Director of
Legal Services.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of the A and B
above unless and until the grant agreement is executed and delivered by the
grant recipient and the City.
D. THAT pursuant to the Section 206(1)(i) of the Vancouver Charter, the
organizations listed in Table 1 that are charities registered with the Canada
Revenue Agency are deemed by Council to be an organization contributing to
the culture, beautification, health, or welfare of the City.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 10318)
3. Annual Financial Authorities 2025
October 29, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2025, Council authorize the
Director of Finance to draw warrants for payment (i.e. issue an authorization to
the City Treasurer to disburse funds from a City account), provided that any such
warrants for payment be reported in writing to the City Clerk for the information of
Council within 15 days after the end of the month in which each warrant is drawn,
in accordance with Sections 215 and 216 of the Vancouver Charter.
B. THAT for the period from January 1 to July 15, 2025, Council authorize the
Director of Finance to temporarily use such proceeds from the sale of debentures
that have not yet been expended to meet other expenditure requirements of the
City, pending collection of the 2025 general purpose tax levy, in accordance with
Section 259(1)(b) of the Vancouver Charter.
C. THAT for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2025, Council authorize the
Director of Finance to invest City funds not immediately required and to vary the
investments from time to time where appropriate, in accordance with Sections
201, 259, and 260 of the Vancouver Charter.
D. THAT for the period from January 8, 2025 to January 7, 2026, pursuant to
Section 263 of the Vancouver Charter, Council authorize the Director of Finance
to establish a short-term borrowing facility to assist in managing the City’s cash
flow with the maximum outstanding amount not to exceed $60 million; and

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 5
instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward a by-law for enactment by
Council authorizing the borrowing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10319)
4. Impoundment Towing Rates and Electronic Tow-away Notice
September 24, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, an increase to the rates and fees that tow
truck operators are authorized to charge for vehicles and other chattels
impounded from public and private property under the Impounding By-law and
the Vehicles for Hire By-law as discussed in the Report dated
September 24, 2024, entitled “Impoundment Towing Rates and Electronic Tow-
away Notice” and as shown in Appendices A and B in the above-noted Report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Vehicles for Hire By-law and the Impounding
By-law in accordance with Appendices A and B in the above-noted Report.
B. THAT Council approve amendments to the Licence By-law to add an electronic
Tow-away Notice as a method for commercial parking lot operators to request
and authorize removal of unlawfully parked vehicles as described in the Report
dated September 24, 2024, entitled “Impoundment Towing Rates and Electronic
Tow-away Notice”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Licence By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix C in the above-noted Report.
C. THAT Council approve amendments to the Vehicles for Hire By-law to add an
electronic Tow-away Notice as a method for tow truck drivers to receive
authorization to remove unlawfully parked vehicles in commercial parking lots as
described in the Report dated September 24, 2024, entitled “Impoundment
Towing Rates and Electronic Tow-away Notice”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Vehicles for Hire By-law generally in
accordance with Appendix A in the above-noted Report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10320)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 6
5. REPORT BACK: Civic Protocol Policy Amendments
October 8, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve amendments to the City’s Civic Protocol Policy, as outlined in
Appendix A of the Report dated October 8, 2024, entitled “REPORT BACK: Civic
Protocol Policy Amendments”, to provide similar consideration for cultural and arts
events as is given to sporting teams and major sporting events.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10321)
6. UBCM Conference – Sponsorship of Programming
October 28, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve funding in the amount of $17,500 to support programming at the
UBCM Annual Convention that was held at the Vancouver Convention Centre from
September 16 to 20, 2024.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10322)
7. Contract Award for Pre-qualified Contractors for Construction Services for Sewer
and Other Utility Works
October 15, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to establish the Sewer and Other Utilities
Program No. 1 (SOUP), in which the City will prequalify certain contractors and
have them competitively bid on an estimated $95,000,000, plus applicable taxes,
of sewer and other utility works, over a three-year term, funded through capital
project budgets, as and when the work is required, in accordance with the terms
generally described in the Report dated October 15, 2024, entitled “Contract
Award for Pre-qualified Contractors for Construction Services for Sewer and
Other Utility Works”.
B. THAT Council authorize the City’s Chief Procurement Officer to execute non-
binding memoranda of understanding with each of the following pre-qualified
contractors: B&B Heavy Civil Construction Ltd., BD Hall Constructors Corp.,
Jacob Bros. Construction Inc., Oscar Renda Contracting of Canada Inc.,
NorLand Limited, Clearway Construction Inc., and Complete Utility Contractors to
participate in the SOUP, in accordance with the terms generally described in the
Report dated October 15, 2024, entitled “Contract Award for Pre-qualified
Contractors for Construction Services for Sewer and Other Utility Works”.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 7
C. THAT Council delegate its authority to the General Manager of Engineering, the
Chief Procurement Officer, and the Director of Legal Services to execute
construction agreements with the contractor who submits the lowest price bid for
each sewer or other utility construction project that City staff tenders to the pre-
qualified contractors under the SOUP.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s approval of A
through C above unless and until the parties execute and deliver the legal
agreements described in A through C above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10323)
(Councillor Montague ineligible to vote due to conflict of interest)
8. Approval of Change Order to existing contract No. PS20211229 - Consulting
Services for PNE Amphitheatre Phase 1 and Phase 2 with Revery Architecture Inc.
October 13, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate a Change Order agreement to add
additional scope to existing contract No. PS20211229 - Consulting Services for
PNE Amphitheatre with Revery Architecture Inc for an estimated cumulative
value of $4,000,000, plus applicable taxes, to be funded through the approved
Multi-year Project Budget for the PNE Amphitheatre.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the Chief
Procurement Officer, the General Manager of Real Estate, Environment and
Facilities Management Department, and the Director of Legal Services.
C. No legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s approval of A and B
above unless and until the City executes and delivers the Agreement.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10324)
9. Contract Award for the Provision of Implementation Services for SAP
SuccessFactors Learning and Application Management Support
October 10, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate a change order to an existing
contract for the provision of implementation services for SAP SuccessFactors
Learning, and Application Management Support with IBM Canada Ltd. for an
estimated total contract value of $3,985,334, plus applicable taxes, over the
maximum five (5)-year contract term (the “Change Order”), which will be funded
from the Technology Services Capital Projects budget.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 8
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Change Order to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and Deputy City Manager.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s approval of A and
B above unless and until the City executes and delivers the Change Order.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10325)
10. Contract Award for SAP SuccessFactors Licenses
September 23, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement for SAP
SuccessFactors Licenses with SAP Canada Inc. for an estimated total contract
value of $4,024,574 over the five (5)-year term (the “Agreement”), which will be
funded from the Technology Services operational and capital project budgets.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and Deputy City Manager.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s approval of A and
B above unless and until the City executes and delivers the Agreement.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10326)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Establishing a South Asian Cultural Centre of Excellence in Vancouver
* * * * *
Prior to the start of this item, Councillor Zhou relinquished the Chair to Councillor Meiszner in
order to introduce the motion, participate in debate, provide comments, and resumed the role of
Chair following the vote on this item.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from three speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Mayor Sim
THAT the Committee recommend to Council

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 9
WHEREAS
1. The South Asian community, which comprises people from India, Pakistan,
Bangladesh, Sri Lanka etc., and people from many other South Asian religious
and cultural traditions, has long expressed a desire for the establishment of a
South Asian Cultural Centre. As envisioned, a cultural centre would be a venue
for cultural exchange, education, and community engagement: A place where
South Asian cultural arts, heritage, language, and traditions can be safeguarded,
promoted, and shared with the broader community;
2. The Province of British Columbia has already embarked on a public engagement
process, sponsored by the Ministry of Tourism, Arts, Culture and Sport, to inform
the vision for a "new museum or cultural centre" to highlight the histories,
cultures, and contributions made by Canadians of diverse South Asian heritages
(Timeline: April 2023 to December 2024);
3. To date, the Province's public engagement process has shown a strong
convergence around the values and attributes that individuals and communities
would find important in a "new museum of cultural centre." For example, there is
a general consensus that a physical representation of the contributions and
histories of Canadians of South Asian heritages will strengthen cultural
connections, provide a sense of belonging, and recognize and preserve an
important part of Canada’s and B.C.’s history;
4. A central focus of the Province's public engagement process has been where a
South Asian cultural centre should be located, along with a strongly expressed
desire to cultivate a community-focused, inclusive, and multicultural space where
everyone can find connection and belonging;
5. The South Asian community is a significant and vibrant part of the City of
Vancouver's cultural mosaic. Throughout history, Vancouver's South Asian
community has made numerous contributions to the cultural, social, and
economic fabric of our city;
6. A South Asian Cultural Centre of Excellence in Vancouver would provide a
much-needed space for cultural preservation, education, and celebration and
would enhance the city's cultural infrastructure while promoting inclusivity and a
deeper understanding and appreciation of South Asian cultures among all
residents;
7. The establishment of a South Asian Cultural Centre of Excellence in the City of
Vancouver would not only serve as a beacon for longtime Vancouver residents
and newcomers alike, i.e., by providing a space to showcase and promote the
rich intangible and tangible heritage of South Asian communities, it would also
serve as a landmark destination for cultural tourism and contribute to the city's
economy and profile as a city that values and invests in cultural diversity;
8. While the City of Surrey has a significant South Asian population and could be a
strong candidate for a South Asian Centre of Cultural Excellence, Vancouver's
central location, cultural vibrancy, robust tourism industry, and existing

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 10
infrastructure make it a compelling location for a South Asian Centre of Cultural
Excellence. The advantages Vancouver offers include:
• Vancouver is a major tourist destination, including cruise ships, and a cultural
centre in the city could attract both local and international visitors, boosting
tourism and the wider local and regional economy;
• Proximity to downtown Vancouver would attract more visitors, including
tourists and locals who frequent the city centre for various activities (e.g.,
Granville Island);
• Vancouver is a major transportation hub with extensive public transit options,
including buses, SkyTrain, and ferries, making it easily accessible for people
from across the region;
• Vancouver is known for its cultural diversity and vibrant multicultural
communities, which would provide a rich environment for a cultural centre
• Vancouver already hosts numerous cultural institutions and events, creating
opportunities for collaboration and cross-cultural
programming (e.g. Chinatown Museum, Science World, etc.);
• Vancouver has a long history of South Asian immigration and contributions,
particularly in neighborhoods like the Punjabi Market on Main Street;
• Vancouver has well-established South Asian communities that can provide
strong support and engagement for the centre;
• Proximity to universities and colleges can facilitate educational partnerships
and new research opportunities;
• Vancouver offers numerous state-of-the-art facilities and infrastructure that
can support the needs of a cultural centre (e.g., the Convention Centre); and
• Vancouver’s higher global profile would attract more funding, sponsorships,
and partnerships from both public and private sector, and ensure sustainable
operations;
9. Making the longstanding desire for a South Asian Centre of Cultural Excellence a
reality, and locating it in the City of Vancouver, will require close collaboration
with all levels of government to secure the necessary funding. By committing to a
one-third share of the funding for a centre located in the City Vancouver, the City
and Council would be demonstrating strong support for this important initiative.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council approves in principle, subject to a report back to Council on the
financial project costs and a funding source, a commitment to funding one-third
of the capital costs of a South Asian Cultural Centre of Excellence if it is located
in the City of Vancouver, inclusive of any contribution of land toward such a
venture.
B. THAT Council empower the Mayor to write to the appropriate Provincial
government Minister(s) and Ministries to advise them of Council's interest in a
South Asian Centre of Cultural Excellence and for this centre to be located in the

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 11
City of Vancouver given Vancouver’s central location, cultural vibrancy, and
existing infrastructure which make Vancouver a compelling choice for the
location of a South Asian Centre of Cultural Excellence.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10315)
2. Unlocking Attainable Home Ownership
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Home ownership has long been a core aspiration for many Canadian families.
However, in recent years, the dream of owning a home has been undermined by
barriers such as the ability to qualify for a mortgage, saving for a downpayment,
the unaffordability resulting from the high cost of housing construction, rising
mortgage interest rates, and economic inflation, among other factors, including
the lack of clear, effective housing attainability policy frameworks at various
government levels focused on home ownership;
2. In a poll conducted by Abacus Data in October 2023, 63% of respondents
indicated they would like to own a residential property such as a house,
townhouse, or condo someday;
3. According to an Ipsos poll conducted in April 2024, 80% of Canadians now feel
that owning a home is only for the rich, and 72% say they have given up on ever
owning a home. In a poll conducted the same month by Abacus Data, 81% of
Canadians believe that the dream of home ownership is dead and unattainable
for most. And a poll conducted in September 2024 by Maru shows 86% of non-
homeowners in Vancouver think there’s little to no prospect of them ever owning
their own property in the city;
4. The urgency around the housing affordability crisis has motivated all levels of
government to work collaboratively and ensure that a greater supply of housing
gets built faster with an emphasis on market- and non-market rental housing in
recent years;
5. Currently, the City’s land use policies prioritize rental housing in multi-housing
areas. However, there are potential areas in the city where rental housing may
not be the optimal land use form and where attainable home ownership could
prove to be a viable housing option without negatively impacting the prioritization
of rental housing;
6. In September 2024, the Provincial Government, in partnership with the
Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh Nations, announced a new Attainable
Home Ownership program on the Heather Lands. This program is the first of its

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 12
kind in B.C., where select homebuyers will have access to a purchasing model
where the Province covers a significant portion of the price of the home, until the
home can be purchased outright or sold. This model creates an opportunity that
may otherwise be out of reach to thousands of families;
7. In the Province of Ontario, the government introduced the More Homes Built
Faster Act in November 2022 whereby Ontario is creating a new program to
support the dream of homeownership for more Ontarians. The new program will
leverage a range of tools, including surplus or underutilized provincial lands and
commercial innovation and partnerships to help rapidly build attainable homes in
mixed-income communities that are more accessible and could help families to
build equity. In the City of Toronto, attainable homeownership solutions are
assisting new buyers to enter the market with innovation in technology and
financial intermediation;
8. To keep the dream of home ownership alive and to make a range of housing
options available for people at all income levels, the City must be ready to seize
on emerging opportunities similar to projects like the Heather Lands and those in
other jurisdictions, and seek new, innovative housing approaches that generate
hope and optimism for people feeling left behind in the housing market;
9. Over the past decade, successive Vancouver City Councils have provided
direction to staff to explore home ownership models to help first-time buyers
enter the housing market, but without the formal legislative power under the
Vancouver Charter to accomplish this objective;
10. As part of the City’s recent Missing Middle R1-1 policy changes, which included
enabling amendments to the Vancouver Charter, the City now has the legislative
authority to finally unlock the potential for attainable home ownership in our city;
and
11. It is incumbent on Vancouver City Council to ensure that a range of housing
options are available for people in our city at all income levels and to ensure the
City is ready and prepared to seize upon attainable home ownership
opportunities as they emerge, especially when new programs led by senior levels
of government in partnership with private sector innovators are becoming
available.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to report back with a proposed attainable home ownership
policy framework by Q2 of 2025, to ensure that the City is ready and prepared to seize
upon emerging market opportunities and/or new programs to unlock attainable home
ownership at scale, including those led by senior levels of government;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to review past Council motions related to attainable
home ownership to help inform a proposed attainable home ownership policy framework;
FURTHER THAT staff evaluate whether any potential new avenues to enable attainable
home ownership exist in light of recent changes to the Vancouver Charter, while
ensuring that the proposed policy framework does not negatively impact existing land

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 13
use policies that prioritize rental housing, or results in burdensome administrative
obligations for City staff;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to explore, as a part of this report, the
feasibility of piloting attainable home ownership projects.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10316)
The Committee adjourned at 10:20 am.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 13, 2024
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, November 13, 2024,
at 10:22 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee
on City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim, Chair
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Councillor Christine Boyle (Leave of Absence – Personal
Reasons)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, November 13, 2024
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. 2024 Cultural Grants (Equity, Indigenous, Individual Artists, Capacity)
2. Vancouver Community Sport Events Grants - Fall 2024 Intake
3. Annual Financial Authorities 2025
4. Impoundment Towing Rates and Electronic Tow-away Notice
5. REPORT BACK: Civic Protocol Policy Amendments

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 2
6. 2024 UBCM Conference – Sponsorship of Programming
7. Contract Award for Pre-qualified Contractors for Construction Services for Sewer and
Other Utility Works
8. Approval of Change Order to existing contract No. PS20211229 - Consulting Services
for PNE Amphitheatre Phase 1 and Phase 2 with Revery Architecture Inc.
9. Contract Award - Change Order (for IBM) Provision of Implementation Services for SAP
SuccessFactors Learning
10. Contract Award: SAP SuccessFactors Licenses
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Establishing a South Asian Cultural Centre of Excellence in Vancouver
2. Unlocking Attainable Home Ownership
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of November 13, 2024, as contained in Reports 1
through 10 and Council Members’ Motions 1 and 2, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
URGENT BUSINESS
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT Councillor Zhou be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on November 19, 2024, from 3 pm onwards, and for civic business from
meetings on November 20, 2024, from 3 pm to 6:30 pm;
FURTHER THAT Mayor Sim be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on November 14, 2024, from 5 pm onwards.
withdrawn
* * * * *
Subsequently, Mayor Sim relinquished the Chair to Councillor Montague in order to withdraw
the previous motion, and resumed the role of Chair following the vote on the withdrawal motion.
* * * * *
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the previous motion be withdrawn.

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 3
CARRIED UNIAMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT Councillor Zhou be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on November 19, 2024, from 3 pm onwards, and for civic business from
meetings on November 20, 2024, from 3 pm to 6:30 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on November 19, 2024, from 5 pm onwards, and for civic business on
November 20, 2024, from 6 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Bligh be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on November 19 and 20, 2024;
AND FURTHER THAT Mayor Sim be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings on November 20, 2024, from 3 pm onwards.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council enact by-law 1 as listed on the agenda for this meeting, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10327)
1. A By-law to authorize the borrowing of certain sums of money from January 8, 2025, to
January 7, 2026, pending the collection of real property taxes (By-law No. 14176)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the meeting be adjourned.

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, November 13, 2024 4
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 10:39 am.
* * * * *