REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 12, 2024
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, June 12, 2024, at 9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by the Part 14
of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Mike Klassen, Chair
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– 12:30 pm – 1:30 pm)
Councillor Christine Boyle* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– 10:30 am – 12:30 pm)
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung* (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – 1 to 2 pm)
Councillor Peter Meiszner, Vice Chair
Councillor Lenny Zhou* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business –
9:30 am – 10:30 am)
ABSENT: Mayor Ken Sim (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Brian Montague
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Olivia Kam, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council adopt Report 3 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Boyle, Dominato and Zhou absent for the vote)
REPORTS
1. Vancouver Official Development Plan – Project Scope and Terms of Reference
May 14, 2024
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT under section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee be permitted to ask
a second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The Committee heard from nine speakers who spoke in opposition to the report
recommendations.
* * * * *
Following speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past noon in order to complete Report 1.
Vancouver Official Development Plan – Project Scope and Terms of Reference.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 3
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Boyle and Bligh absent for the vote)
Subsequently, in order to participate in debate on Report 1. Vancouver Official Development
Plan – Project Scope and Terms of Reference, Chair Klassen relinquished the Chair to Vice-
Chair Meiszner, and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the project scope and Terms of Reference for the Vancouver
Official Development Plan generally as outlined in the Report dated May 14, 2024,
entitled “Vancouver Official Development Plan – Project Scope and Terms of Reference”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10046)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
At this point in the proceedings, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the agenda be varied in order to hear Council Members’ Motions 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7
prior to Report 2. Establishing a Chinatown Cultural District;
FURTHER THAT the Committee reconvene at 1:30 pm following the lunch break.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
Note: for ease of reference, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:09 pm and reconvened at 1:33 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 4
3. Council Resolution – Brewery Lounges
May 31, 2024
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council adopt the resolution, attached as Appendix A to the Report dated May 31,
2024, entitled “Council Resolution – Brewery Lounges”, not to enforce for a period of two
years, the Zoning and Development By-law maximum floor area restrictions for a lounge
use accessory to Brewing use located within the principal building.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10056)
(Councillors Boyle, Dominato and Zhou absent for the vote)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Mayor Sim be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from meetings on
June 20, 2024, from 6 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Fry be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on July 25, 2024, from 6 pm onwards, July 26, 29, 30 and 31, 2024, from
9:30 am to 5 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10057)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
* * * * *
Prior to introducing Members’ Motion 3. UBCM Resolution: SAFER Funding for Seniors,
Chair Klassen relinquished the Chair to Vice-Chair Meiszner, and resumed the Chair following
the vote.
* * * * *
3. UBCM Resolution: SAFER Funding for Seniors
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 5
WHEREAS
1. The Province of British Columbia’s Shelter Aid for Elderly Renters (SAFER)
program helps make rents affordable for BC seniors with low to moderate
incomes. SAFER provides monthly cash payments to subsidize rents for eligible
BC residents who are age 60 or over;
2. Over half of Vancouver households rent their homes, which includes many
seniors. That is why the City of Vancouver is actively working to implement
strategies to improve protections and supports for renters;
3. According to the 2016 census, seniors represented 15.5% of the population of
Vancouver, a share that has grown larger with each census and is forecast to
keep growing;
4. The City of Vancouver Housing Needs Report from April 2022 notes that in
March 2021 the Province supported 3,457 Vancouver-based seniors through the
Shelter Aid For Elderly Renters (SAFER) program and that the number of seniors
supported with SAFER has increased steadily since 2011; 1
5. Seniors have a diverse range of housing needs, with seniors living in rental
housing or with low-incomes, or in disproportionately impacted communities,
many needing different types of housing and/or housing-related supports such as
social housing, rent assistance, or wheel-chair accessible units;
6. The City of Vancouver’s Draft Seniors Housing Strategy (Draft Version: April 18,
2024) likewise highlights the diversity of housing needs of elders and older
adults, which vary widely depending on socio-economic status, age, health, and
other factors. For example, there is a notable lack of culturally appropriate
supports and inclusive care environments for 2SLGBTQ+ residents;
7. From March to May 2023, as part of the Seniors Housing Strategy, the City
conducted an engagement process to understand the existing housing
challenges and future housing needs of older adults. Several common
challenges were identified including a lack of affordable housing for low-income
older adults and long waitlists for social, co-op and supportive housing;
8. The Seniors Housing Strategy engagement also identified poor supports for
market renters, in particular the fact that the SAFER Program that provides rent
supplements to market renters is “grossly inadequate given current area rents”
and that an overhaul to the program is needed to keep up with changing market
conditions;
1 In June 2021, BC Housing counted 1,998 seniors on its social housing waitlist and in March 2021
provided 3,457 Shelter Aid For Elderly Renters (SAFER) monthly payments. Housing needs for seniors in
Vancouver will be addressed specifically as part of an upcoming City of Vancouver Seniors Housing
Strategy.
https://council.vancouver.ca/20220427/documents/cfsc3.pdf

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 6
9. The high cost of housing in the city, combined with a lack of affordable housing
for low-income older adults, long waitlists for social, co-op and supportive
housing, and the inadequacy of home support services is unnecessarily leading
to premature admissions to the province’s long-term care facilities – the costliest
level of support for seniors;
10. A recent paper published in the journal of the Canadian Medical Association
(CMA) noted that the proportion of people 50 years and older using shelters is
increasing, even as most shelters in Canada are not adequately designed and
resourced to meet the needs of older adults 2 (Tackling late-life homelessness in
Canada - May 21, 2024);
11. In 2021, 32% of people using shelters were aged 50 years and older, which does
not include the many older adults who were unsheltered, living outdoors, and
experiencing hidden homelessness in provisional accommodations, such as
living temporarily with friends or family;
12. In August 2023, the Office of the Seniors Advocate presented its 2022/23 Annual
Report to the Minister of Health. The report states the following:
“The Seniors Advocate continues to hear from seniors about concerns with
access to affordable, safe housing. While this is a concern for many British
Columbians, it is particularly challenging for seniors with low to moderate
incomes who cannot afford the rising costs of rent, home maintenance and
home adaptations. The BC Housing Shelter Aid for Elderly Renters (SAFER)
and Seniors Subsidized Housing programs are not keeping pace with inflation
and a growing seniors population.”
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council endorse the following resolution for
submission to the 2024 UBCM convention for the consideration of the membership:
RESOLUTION
MOTION: SAFER Funding for Seniors
WHEREAS the Province of British Columbia’s Shelter Aid for Elderly Renters
(SAFER) program is intended to help make rents affordable for BC seniors with
low to moderate incomes;
AND WHEREAS the Office of the Seniors Advocate has identified that the BC
Housing Shelter Aid for Elderly Renters (SAFER) and Seniors Subsidized
Housing programs are not keeping pace with inflation, the growing seniors
population, and changing market conditions, including a notable lack of culturally
appropriate supports and inclusive care environments for 2SLGBTQ+ residents:
2 The CMA paper cited Canada’s National Shelter Study, which estimated the proportion of adults aged
50 years and older among people staying in shelters rose from 13.5% (n = 19 179) in 2005 to 24.2% (n =
33 011) in 2014, with those aged 65 years and older doubling from 1.6% (n = 2244) to 3.2% (n = 4332).
People older than 50 years were the only age group to have increased shelter use over this time.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 7
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that UBCM call on the Provincial Government
to increase funding and resources for the SAFER Program and Seniors
Subsidized Housing programs, including affordable seniors housing projects, to
reflect current market conditions, meet the needs, and improve the quality of life
for seniors and older persons across the province.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10047)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
5. UBCM Resolution: Prioritizing Infrastructure Investments to Support New Housing
in Municipalities
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council endorse the following resolution for submission to the
2024 UBCM convention for the consideration of the membership:
RESOLUTION
MOTION: Prioritizing Infrastructure Investments to Support New Housing in
Municipalities
WHEREAS the recent enactment of Bills 44, 46, and 47 – Housing Statutes
Amendments related to residential development, development financing and
transit-oriented areas, have mandated increased housing density across the
Province, thereby accelerating the need for substantial infrastructure investments
to support this new housing;
AND WHEREAS the current provisions of Bills 44, 46, and 47 do not adequately
address the full spectrum of infrastructure needs and costs that accompany
increased housing density, such as, but not limited to, sewer and water systems,
transportation, roads, and active transportation infrastructure, as well social
infrastructure such as community centres, schools. parks and health services
necessary to growing communities:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Union of BC Municipalities urge the
Provincial Government to prioritize and increase provincial investments in
municipal capital infrastructure.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10048)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 8
6. UBCM Resolution: Parental Leave
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Province of BC collectively, and through its various ministries, recognizes
that maternity and parental leave for elected officials is an important issue and
that it is important for new parents to have adequate time and energy to spend
with their child;
2. Through UBCM, local governments in BC have resolved several times to ask the
Province to amend various pieces of legislation, such as the Community Charter
and the Local Government Act, to establish common, province-wide minimum
entitlements for maternity and parental leave for local elected officials following
the birth or adoption of a child, consistent with the Employment Standards Act
provisions following the birth or adoption of a child and inclusive of leave
provisions that would exempt an elected official from disqualification from office
for absences of 60 consecutive days or four consecutive regularly scheduled
council or board meetings;
3. As of the present date, the Province of BC has declined to make any such
province-wide legislative amendments relating to parental leave for locally
elected officials that would meaningfully guarantee these rights;
4. In the absence of a uniform, province-wide standard, some local governments in
BC have adopted their own parental leave policies to allow elected officials to go
on leave – an inherently inadequate approach in the absence of a binding
legislative framework;
5. There is a lack of consistency across local governments regarding their locally-
drafted and adopted parental leave policies, which are not binding and have no
weight under provincial legislation, and therefore are subject to arbitrary changes
from one elected term to another.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council endorse the following resolution for
submission to the 2024 UBCM convention for the consideration of the membership:
RESOLUTION
MOTION: Parental Leave
WHEREAS current provincial legislation does not adequately protect the parental
leave rights of local government elected officials, requiring local governments to
adopt their own policies for approving leaves for elected officials who become
parents;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 9
AND WHEREAS the Province of BC collectively, and through its various
ministries, recognizes that parental leave for elected officials is an important
issue and that it is important for new parents to have adequate time and energy
to spend with their child:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that UBCM call on the Province of BC to
amend all relevant pieces of provincial legislation, such as the Community
Charter, the Vancouver Charter, and the Local Government Act, in order to
establish common, province-wide minimum entitlements for parental leave for
locally elected officials following the birth or adoption of a child, consistent with
the Employment Standards Act provisions following the birth or adoption of a
child, and inclusive of leave provisions that would grant an elected official an
exemption from any disqualification from office for absences of sixty consecutive
days or four consecutive regularly scheduled council or board meetings.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10049)
7. UBCM Resolution: PFAS-Free Firefighting Gear Funding
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Per-and-Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) compounds, commonly found in
traditional firefighter bunker gear and fire retardant foam, pose significant
hazards to firefighters and communities, including potential carcinogenic effects
and environmental contamination as a “forever chemical”;
2. On April 9, 2024, Council unanimously approved a one-time Vancouver Fire
Rescue Services 2024 budget increase of $2,825,000 for the purchase of PFAS-
free bunker gear through the general stabilization reserve, aligning with evolving
safety standards and addressing concerns over PFAS exposure;
3. Prioritizing the acquisition of PFAS-free gear reflects a commitment to firefighter
safety and occupational health standards; and
4. By embracing these safety and occupational health changes, and transitioning to
safer alternatives, fire departments can mitigate the risks of PFAS exposure,
safeguarding both firefighters and their communities.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council endorse the following resolution for
submission to the 2024 UBCM convention for the consideration of the membership:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 10
RESOLUTION
MOTION: Provincial Funding for PFAS-Free Firefighting Gear in British
Columbia
WHEREAS the health and safety of firefighters across British Columbia are
routinely compromised by exposure to Per-and-Polyfluoroalkyl Substances
(PFAS), through the use of PFAS-containing fire retardant foam and through
dermal absorption from the water-repellent inner liner of their turnout (bunker)
gear, particularly during periods of extreme heat and high physical exertion
commonly experienced by firefighters in the line of duty;
AND WHEREAS the City of Vancouver recently approved a one-time budget
increase of $2.8 million to procure Per-and-Polyfluoroalkyl free (PFAS-free)
bunker gear for all Vancouver Fire Rescue Services (VFRS) personnel, thereby
becoming the first fire department in North America to transition to PFAS-free
turnout gear to significantly reduce the health risks associated with PFAS
exposure and the persistent nature and resistance to degradation of these
"forever chemicals" in the environment and the human body:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that UBCM call upon the province of British
Columbia to allocate provincial funds specifically for the procurement of PFAS-
free bunker gear for all B.C. firefighters, to prioritize their health and safety while
ensuring their gear meets the highest standards of protection and safety without
the use of PFAS and exposure to the harmful effects of these forever chemicals,
and work towards the introduction of alternatives to PFAS-containing fire
retardant foam.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this motion and the meeting
minutes be forwarded to UBCM in accordance with Council direction.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10050)
REPORTS
2. Establishing a Chinatown Cultural District
June 5, 2024
Staff from Business Planning and Project Support provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
The Committee heard from six speakers who spoke in support of the report recommendations
and one speaker who spoke to other aspects of the report recommendations.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 11
Prior to the vote on the motion, and in order to participate in debate on Report 2. Establishing a
Chinatown Cultural District, Chair Klassen relinquished the Chair to Vice-Chair Meiszner, and
resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the draft Chinatown Cultural District Framework contained
in Appendix A of the Report dated June 5, 2024, entitled “Establishing a
Chinatown Cultural District”, as Council direction for Chinatown-related policy
decisions and priorities moving forward.
B. THAT Council direct staff to return in Q3 2024 with an early implementation plan
for the Chinatown Cultural District Framework for Council’s consideration;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to include in the implementation plan next
steps on strategic alignment between the Chinatown Cultural District Framework,
Vancouver Plan directions, and other city-wide planning work including
forthcoming provincial legislation (Bills 44, 46, 47).
C. THAT Council endorse the establishment of a Chinatown Advisory Committee
(Type D advisory body) to provide advice to Council on matters related to
Chinatown, in accordance with the proposed Terms of Reference outlined in
Appendix B of the Report dated June 5, 2024, entitled “Establishing a Chinatown
Cultural District”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10051)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
2. Anti-racism and Decolonization Education
The Committee heard from three speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is open with its commitment to anti-racism, decolonization,
reconciliation, and dismantling white supremacy.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 12
2. On March 12, 2024, City Council passed a motion directing “THAT Mayor and
Councillors receive updated human rights training as part of their regular education
sessions with the Integrity Commissioner’s Office.”
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirm the importance of ongoing education for City leadership in anti-
racism, decolonization, reconciliation, and dismantling white supremacy.
B. THAT Council recommend that human rights training provided to Mayor and Council
by the Integrity Commissioner’s Office contain specific anti-racism training, including:
• The role of anti-racism in dismantling systems of oppression;
• The distinctions between Decolonization and Reconciliation; and
• Mayor and Council acknowledging their settler Land
Acknowledgement/Colonial Stories on how they came to this land dating back
to the first settler from their family history.
FURTHER THAT the source of funding for said extra human rights training is to be
Councillors’ Travel and Training Expense Budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10052)
4. Increasing Vancouver’s Tree Canopy for a Safer, Healthier City
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Urban tree canopy improves air quality and reduces the impacts of heat events,
making life safer and healthier for nearby residents. Extensive research in our
region and abroad has demonstrated that increased shade trees and vegetation
has protective impacts in extreme heat events3 resulting in fewer hospitalizations
where increased canopy cover is present4 alongside other ecological, social and
economic benefits including sequestering carbon, supporting biodiversity and
ecosystem health, mitigating more frequent and extreme rainfall events,
3 Vancouver Coastal Health, Protecting Population Health in Climate Emergency, 2023. 18
https://www.vch.ca/sites/default/files/2024-02/vch-climate-change-health-report.pdf
4 X. Feng, et. Al, “Show me the money! Associations between tree canopy and hospital costs in cities for
cardiovascular disease events in a longitudinal cohort study of 110,134 participants”, Environment
International (2024) 108558, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2024.108558

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 13
generating higher property values and supporting better mental and physical
health of residents.5
2. Vancouver Coastal Health’s report on the 2021 Heat Dome notes that Vancouver
was the British Columbia city with the highest number (117) of heat-related
deaths, with a factor being “the absence of tree canopy and other green space to
provide protective cooling”. The report includes a recommendation to “Create
cooler outdoor urban environments” by identifying “nature-based solutions to cool
urban areas.”6
3. The BC Coroner’s Service Heat Dome report also notes that the populations
living in the least materially and socially advantaged neighbourhoods, which
often include urban heat islands lacking protective features such as green
spaces and shade trees, were disproportionately affected and more vulnerable to
extreme heat.7
4. A newly released report on regional tree canopy by Metro Vancouver notes the
significant discrepancy8 between tree canopy cover in Vancouver’s west side
neighbourhoods compared to south and east side neighbourhoods,9 leaving
these neighbourhoods more exposed to the effects of extreme heat.10 This
highlights the need to address the urban tree canopy as a matter of equity, health
and safety for all Vancouver residents.
5. The tree canopy throughout the city is at risk due to extreme weather and
drought, as well as the dominance of short-lived tree species such as cherries,
and because 45% of the trees are on private lands at risk of being cut for new
development.11
6. A key recommendation of the BC Coroner’s Heat Dome Report is to map
neighbourhoods that are deficient in tree canopy:
5 C. S. Green, et. Al. “Canopy of advantage: Who benefits most from city trees?,”Journal of Environmental
Management (2018): 24-35, https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29247882/
6 Vancouver Coastal Health, Protecting Population Health in Climate Emergency, 15.
7 BC. Coroners Service, Extreme Heat and Human Mortality: A Review of Heat-Related Deaths in B.C. in
Summer 2021. 2022. 5 https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/birth-adoption-death-marriage-and-
divorce/deaths/coroners-service/death-review-panel/extreme_heat_death_review_panel_report.pdf
8 MetroVancouver, 2020 Regional Tree Canopy Cover and Impervious Surface: In Metro Vancouver,
2024.https://metrovancouver.org/services/regional-planning/Documents/regional-tree-canopy-cover-
impervious-surface-2020.pdf
9 City of Vancouver and Vancouver Park Board, Urban Forest Strategy 2018 Update. 2018. 11.
10 Nature Canada, Canada's Urban Forests: Bringing the Canopy to All. 2022. 20-21.
https://naturecanada.ca/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/Nature-Canada-Report-Tree-Equity.pdf
11 City of Vancouver and Vancouver Park Board, Urban Forest Strategy 2018 update. 2018. 11.
https://parkboardmeetings.vancouver.ca/files/STRATEGY-UrbanForestStrategy-20180430.pdf

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 14
Mapping geographic areas through census data and the social and material
deprivation indexes could also help identify neighbourhoods where access to
cooling areas in parks is limited and/or little green space or tree canopy
exists. This could help communities prioritise where green space is needed
and where parks should be developed with shade and accessibility in mind.12
7. Vancouver’s Greenest City Action Plan, launched in 2011, included the goal to
plant 150,000 additional trees by 2020. In late 2020, the Vancouver Park Board
approved a strategy of planting tens of thousands of additional trees on city
streets, parks, and other public spaces over the coming decades, with the goal of
growing the tree canopy from 23% in 2020 to 30% by 2050.13
8. Planting trees at younger ages, if they are well watered and cared for, improves
the overall health and longevity of the tree and will contribute to an increase in
species diversity in our urban forest. In a changing climate with increasing
extreme heat and weather events, planting climate resilient trees improves their
longevity and therefore their positive impact.14
9. Retaining larger trees also better maintains the tree canopy and carbon
sequestration value of our urban forest.
10. As the city adds more housing and welcomes more people in neighbourhoods
across Vancouver, as permitted by new provincial legislation and city-wide
zoning changes, retaining existing mature trees, replacing lost trees and adding
new climate-resilient street and park trees becomes even more important and
beneficial for residents now and into the future.
11. In the 2022 municipal election, ABC Vancouver promised to plant 100,000 new
additional trees across Vancouver in their first four years in office, specifically in
areas that have fewer trees.15
12. The Green Municipal Fund (GMF) Growing Canada’s Community Canopies
(GCCC) is a $291 million initiative that will support planting at least 1.2 million
trees across the country by addressing common barriers local governments and
communities face when pursuing tree canopy expansion projects, including
insufficient staff capacity, gaps in knowledge, and financing. The fund supports
12 BC. Coroners Service, Extreme Heat and Human Mortality. 2022. 27
13 https://dailyhive.com/vancouver/vancouver-urban-forest-tree-canopy-2020-target
14 Hannah Jaenike, Good Tree Nursery Practices: Practical Guidelines for Research Nurseries. (Nairobi:
International Centre for Research in Agroforestry, 15-16
https://apps.worldagroforestry.org/Units/Library/Books/PDFs/17_Good_tree_nursery_practices.pdf?n=44
15ABC Vancouver, “ABC Vancouver commits to planting 100,000 new trees during first term in office”
News Release, August 22, 2022, https://abcvancouver.ca/2022/08/abc-vancouver-commits-to-planting-
100000-new-trees-during-first-term-in-office/

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 15
planting the right type of trees in the right places so that communities of all sizes
can grow, manage, and protect their tree canopies.16
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct City of Vancouver staff to report back to City Council with a
plan, timeline and required operating and capital budget to plant 100,000 new
trees across Vancouver – using both native and climate-resilient trees – in areas
with lower tree canopy and areas where residents are at higher risk during heat
events17;
FURTHER THAT this update to Vancouver’s tree canopy and urban forest
strategies, and required funding requests, be brought back to Council no later
than Q4 2024.
B. THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back on possible by-law
amendments to the tree-replacement strategy that prioritizes retaining larger,
healthy trees where possible and emphasizes climate resilience in the species
and sizes of new trees being planted.
C. THAT Council affirm their support, and commit to ensure implementation of,
recent Park Board direction to re-establish the city’s urban forestry programs
including:
a. Providing climate resilient trees for sale at a reduced cost to residents to
plant on private property in the city.
b. An “adopt a street tree” program similar to the “adopt a catch basin”
program, for residents to volunteer to water and care for trees on city
lands, particularly younger and newly planted trees most at risk during
increased extreme weather events.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT in the first paragraph of A, the phrase “map neighbourhoods most deficient in tree
canopy and where the tree canopy is at risk, and” be inserted after the word “staff”;
FURTHER THAT in the second paragraph of A, the phrase “with the exception that staff
be directed to make an urgent application to the first tranche of the Green Municipal
16 A first round of GCCC funding is currently available until July 12, 2024 for the Spring 2025 planting
season for up to 50% of eligible costs and up to a maximum of $10 million in GCCC project funding. More
info at https://greenmunicipalfund.ca/growing-canadas-community-canopies
17 Example initiative: https://www.instagram.com/p/C5GsddrsIIj/?igsh=Nm9sbnNvajBoanZ0&img_index=1

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 16
Fund (GMF) $291 million Growing Canada’s Community Canopies (GCCC) initiative
prior to July 12, 2024, for the Spring 2025 planting season”, be added to the end;
FURTHER THAT in C, subclause a, the words “and/or minimal” be inserted after the
word “reduced”;
FURTHER THAT in C, subclause a, the phrase “particularly in neighborhoods with a
below average canopy cover, to support the Urban Forest Strategy and the goal to
increase the city’s tree canopy cover to 30% by 2050”, be added to the end;
AND FURTHER THAT the following be added as D:
D. THAT staff be directed to engage with external organizations that may
also be willing to partner on a tree giveaway program in support of the
goal to increase the City’s tree canopy.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10053)
* * * * *
Prior to the introduction and vote on a subsequent amendment to Members’ Motion 4.
Increasing Vancouver’s Tree Canopy for a Safer, Healthier City, and in order to participate in
debate, Chair Klassen relinquished the Chair to Vice-Chair Meiszner, and resumed the Chair
once finished.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the following be added as E:
E. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the number of trees planted
by the City annually over the past 10 years, including the survival rate of
these newly-planted trees, with the aim of identifying any challenges or
resource gaps that may prevent newly planted trees from maturing and
surviving, ahead of and in time for consideration as part of the 2025
Operating Budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10054)
The amendments having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10055).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct City of Vancouver staff to map neighbourhoods most
deficient in tree canopy and where the tree canopy is at risk, and report back to
City Council with a plan, timeline and required operating and capital budget to

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 17
plant 100,000 new trees across Vancouver – using both native and climate-
resilient trees– in areas with lower tree canopy and areas where residents are at
higher risk during heat events18;
FURTHER THAT this update to Vancouver’s tree canopy and urban forest
strategies, and required funding requests, be brought back to Council no later
than Q4 2024, with the exception that staff be directed to make an urgent
application to the first tranche of the Green Municipal Fund (GMF) $291 million
Growing Canada’s Community Canopies (GCCC) initiative prior to July 12, 2024,
for the Spring 2025 planting season.
B. THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back on possible by-law
amendments to the tree-replacement strategy that prioritizes retaining larger,
healthy trees where possible and emphasizes climate resilience in the species
and sizes of new trees being planted.
C. THAT Council direct staff to work to re-establish the city’s urban forestry
programs including:
a. Providing climate resilient trees for sale at a reduced and/or minimal cost
to residents to plant on private property in the city, particularly in
neighborhoods with a below average canopy cover, to support the Urban
Forest Strategy and the goal to increase the city’s tree canopy cover to
30% by 2050.
b. An “adopt a street tree” program similar to the “adopt a catch basin”
program, for residents to volunteer to water and care for trees on city
lands, particularly younger and newly planted trees most at risk during
increased extreme weather events.
D. THAT staff be directed to engage with external organizations that may also be
willing to partner on a tree giveaway program in support of the goal to increase
the City’s tree canopy.
E. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the number of trees planted by the
City annually over the past 10 years, including the survival rate of these newly-
planted trees, with the aim of identifying any challenges or resource gaps that
may prevent newly planted trees from maturing and surviving, ahead of and in
time for consideration as part of the 2025 Operating Budget.
The Committee adjourned at 3:51 pm.
* * * * *
18 Example initiative: https://www.instagram.com/p/C5GsddrsIIj/?igsh=Nm9sbnNvajBoanZ0&img_index=1

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 12, 2024
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, June 12, 2024, at
3:51 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Acting Mayor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Mayor Ken Sim (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Brian Montague
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Olivia Kam, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, June 12, 2024
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. Vancouver Official Development Plan – Project Scope and Terms of Reference
2. Establishing a Chinatown Cultural District
3. Council Resolution – Brewery Lounges
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
2. Anti-racism and Decolonization Education
3. UBCM Resolution: SAFER Funding for Seniors

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, June 12, 2024 2
4. Increasing Vancouver’s Tree Canopy for a Safer, Healthier City
5. UBCM Resolution: Prioritizing Infrastructure Investments to Support New Housing in
Municipalities
6. UBCM Resolution: Parental Leave
7. UBCM Resolution: PFAS-Free Firefighting Gear Funding
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of June 12, 2024, as contained in Reports 1 through 3
and Council Members’ Motions 1 through 7, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 3:52 pm.
* * * * *