SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
December 5, 2023
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
December 5, 2023, at 9:31 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose
of hearing from speakers to the 2024 Capital and Operating Budget.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager and Acting General
Manager of Real Estate, Environment and Facilities Services
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager and Acting General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. 2024 Draft Capital and Operating Budget
a) 2024 Engineering Fees
b) 2024 Annual Review of Water Rates and Water Works By-law Amendments
c) 2024 Annual Review of Sewer Rates under the Sewer and Watercourse By-law
d) 2024 Solid Waste Utility Fees and By-law Changes
e) 2024 False Creek Neighbourhood Energy Utility Customer Rates

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, December 05, 2023 2
f) 2024 Climate Budget
g) 2024 Draft Capital and Operating Budget
The City Manager and the General Manger of Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management
provided opening remarks, and along with staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability
and Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management presented highlights on the 2024 Climate
Budget and 2024 Draft Capital and Operating Budget.
* * * * *
Prior to questions of staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT under section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, Council ask a second round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Subsequently, during the second round of questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council suspend the rules of the Procedure By-law and ask a third round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
Following the presentations, members of the City’s Leadership Team and staff responded to
questions:
• City Manager
• General Manger of Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management
• Director of City-wide Financial Planning and Analysis
• Acting General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability
• Director of Long Range & Strategic Planning, Sustainability Group
• General Manager of Engineering Services
• Director of Solid Waste Management, Engineering Services
• Acting General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services
• Fire Chief and General Manager of Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, December 05, 2023 3
• Chief Constable of the Vancouver Police Department
• Chief Librarian of the Vancouver Public Library
• General Manager of Vancouver Parks and Recreation
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:58 am and reconvened at 2:08 pm.
* * * * *
Following the recess, Council continued to ask questions to staff. Subsequently, Council heard
from 25 speakers as follows:
• 1 speaker who spoke in support of the recommendations;
• 13 speakers who spoke in opposition to the recommendations; and
• 11 speakers who spoke to other aspects of the recommendations.
* * * * *
At 3:42 pm during the hearing of speakers, the Mayor acknowledged Councillor Fry’s comments
regarding the requirement of Council members to cite the section of the Procedure By-law when
raising points of order.
Subsequently, following the conclusion of speakers, Council took a brief recess at 4:15 pm and
reconvened at 4:18 pm.
* * * * *
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Special Council meeting adjourned at 4:19 pm.
* * * * *