REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 15, 2023
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, November 15, 2023, at 9:31 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
This Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Chair* (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – 9:30 am – 12 pm)
Mayor Ken Sim*
Councillor Christine Boyle* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– 9:30 am – 10:30 am)
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung*
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou, Vice Chair
ABSENT: Councillor Peter Meiszner (Leave of Absence – Personal
Reasons)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Olivia Kam, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Vice-Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish,
and Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Vice-Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who
work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee adopt items 2, 4 and 5, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Boyle, Dominato and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
REPORTS
1. Elimination of Minimum Parking Requirements – Phase 2
November 7, 2023
Staff from Engineering Services provided a presentation and along with staff from Development,
Buildings and Licensing and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to
questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT under Section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee be allowed to ask a
second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle and Dominato absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the second phase of the elimination of
minimum vehicle parking requirements by expanding the Downtown parking
standards to the West End, Robson North, and Broadway Plan Area, to be
effective January 1, 2024.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment the necessary amending By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Report dated November 7, 2023, entitled “Elimination of
Minimum Parking Requirements – Phase 2”.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the loading rates and design

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 3
standards and bicycle facility requirements, to be effective January 1, 2024.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment the necessary amending By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Report dated November 7, 2023, entitled “Elimination of
Minimum Parking Requirements – Phase 2”.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a phasing plan and the next phase
of eliminating minimum parking requirements across the city, consideration of
parking maximums, and a complementary framework for improving regulation of
on-street parking by the end of 2024.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09650)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
2. Minor Amendments to the Street and Traffic and Parking Meter By-laws
October 17, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, changes to the Parking Meter By-law as
detailed in the Report dated October 17, 2023, entitled “Minor Amendments to
the Street and Traffic and Parking Meter By-laws” and Appendix A of the same
report.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, changes to the Street and Traffic By-law as
detailed in the Report dated October 17, 2023, entitled “Minor Amendments to
the Street and Traffic and Parking Meter By-laws” and Appendix B of thesame
report.
C. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to prepare and bring
forward for enactment amendments to the Parking Meter By-law and Street and
Traffic By-law as generally outlined in Appendices A and B of the Report dated
October 17, 2023, entitled “Minor Amendments to the Street and Traffic and
Parking Meter By-laws”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09656)
(Councillors Boyle, Dominato and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
3. Commercial Vehicle Permit Program Improvements
October 18, 2023
Staff from Engineering Services responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 4
THAT Council approves, in principle, amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law and
Parking Meter By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A and Appendix B of the
Report dated October 18, 2023, entitled “Commercial Vehicle Permit Program
Improvements”, to enable commercial vehicles to park during a wider time period and in
a greater range of locations for an increased commercial vehicle decal fee.
FURTHER THAT Council instructs the Director of Legal Services to prepare and bring
forward for enactment amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law and Parking Meter
By-law as generally outlined in Appendices A and B of the above-noted report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09651)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the words “with implementation deferred to 2025” be added to the end of the
“THAT” Clause.
withdrawn
During discussion on the amendment, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the amendment be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
4. 2023 Property Tax Policy Review – Revised Terms of Reference
November 1, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the amendments to the Terms of Reference for the Property Tax
Policy Review in Appendix A of the Report dated November 1, 2023, entitled “2023
Property Tax Policy Review – Revised Terms of Reference”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09657)
(Councillors Boyle, Dominato and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
5. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Bulldozers
October 17, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with Finning Canada for
the supply and delivery of two large bulldozers, for an initial term of five (5) years,
with the option to extend for four (4) additional one-year terms, with an estimated

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 5
contract value of $2,538,000 over the initial five (5) year term, to be funded
through the Multi-Year Capital Project Budget for the 2023-2026 Renewal of
Vehicles & Equipment – Disposal program.
B. FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and
General Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of
the City the contract contemplated by A above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09658)
(Councillors Dominato, Boyle and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on November 29, 2023, from 9 am to 10:15 am.
withdrawn
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council Members’ Motion 1 above be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
2. Unlocking Shaughnessy: Building Affordable Housing Options for All of Us
The Committee heard from five speakers who spoke in support of the motion and one speaker
who spoke in opposition to the motion.
* * * * *
During discussion on Council Members’ Motion 2, Vice-Chair Zhou relinquished the Chair to
Chair Bligh in order to make comments on the motion and resumed the Chair afterwards.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 6
WHEREAS
1. We are in a housing crisis. In order to see tangible improvements, local
governments need to use every tool at their disposal, and to ensure that every
neighbourhood is welcoming their fair share of residents at all income levels;
2. Shaughnessy has an important history of multi-family housing, especially during
and after World War II, when many older, large homes became multi-family
housing, helping to ease the housing crisis while all resources were directed to
Canada’s war effort.1 One of the best ways to preserve older buildings is to
ensure that they remain useful to more people, by making it legal to convert large
older homes into multi-family housing again, alongside adding infill housing and
new more affordable rental and family sized housing;
3. Despite extraordinary demand to live in Vancouver’s central neighbourhoods,
Shaughnessy’s population has been in decline over the last 50 years, from
10,370 in 1971 to 8,204 as of 2021, a 20.9% decline. During this same time
period the population of the City of Vancouver grew by 55.4%, and Metro
Vancouver grew by 157%. Pushing population growth outside of Shaughnessy
has put added pressure on more affordable neighbourhoods across Vancouver,
leading to higher housing costs and displacement from Vancouver;
4. While Shaughnessy has the highest median household income of Vancouver
neighbourhoods, the lower 80% of income earners are significantly under-
represented. Not having housing for middle- and moderate-income households
makes it difficult to create complete communities, and means many households
will have to commute from farther away;
5. Building complete, walkable communities is an important part of Vancouver’s
Climate Emergency Action Plan. By building climate resilient housing, in
communities where residents can walk or roll to more of their daily needs, and
where neighbours have a chance to get to know one another and build stronger
social connections, we not only reduce carbon pollution, but we make Vancouver
safer and healthier for current and future residents;
6. Shaughnessy has one of the highest rates of tree canopy coverage in the city. A
recent Metro Vancouver report “Social Equity Spatial Analysis Case Studies”
outlined the need for more equitable access to the benefits trees provide.2 These
benefits include reduced air pollution, cooler temperatures during heat waves,
and improved mental and physical health. However, growth in Vancouver is often
focused in areas with much lower tree canopy. Enabling more households to live
in neighbourhoods with good tree canopy would help address the existing
inequity;
7. Shaughnessy has some of the best transit access in Canada. Most homes are
located only a 5-10 minute bike ride or 10-30 minute walk from the upcoming
1 Wade, Jill. “Houses for All: The Struggle for Social Housing in Vancouver, 1919-50” Available at:
https://books.google.ca/books?id=z-
5PwY6CkGgC&pg=PA208&lpg=PA208&dq=order+200+war+housing+canada&source=bl&ots=BSCWm5XxzB&sig=5q2xCh9rjwYljd
3FAg1XLSCiRAc&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjXiMelytDWAhWmxVQKHQ89CiA4ChDoAQgqMAE#v=snippet&q=Shaughnessy&f=f
alse
2 “Social Equity Spatial Analysis Case Studies”, prepared for Metro Vancouver, February 2023. Available at:
https://metrovancouver.org/boards/RegionalPlanning/RPL_2023-Mar-10_AGE.pdf, p 20.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 7
South Granville SkyTrain Station. Even today, frequent buses on Granville get
Shaughnessy residents downtown in about 15 minutes, and this bus route has
extra capacity meaning new residents won’t cause overcrowding. Vancouver and
TransLink are about to invest in transit priority measures that will get residents
there even faster. Adding new homes close to SkyTrain and frequent transit is a
priority for this Council;
8. It is possible to protect heritage, while also understanding it as a public good that
should be accessible to more people. In a popular video about The Heritage
Dilemma produced by CBC Vancouver, urban planner and videographer Uytae
Lee outlines that Shaughnessy was originally created “as a mansion district for
Vancouver’s elites” and that “it should be concerning when our heritage policies
end up creating exclusive neighbourhoods that actively try to prevent people from
living in them or even visiting them.” But the video also articulates that “there is a
real value in preserving heritage when it is accessible for people to experience
and interact with themselves.”;3
9. Vancouver’s West End is an excellent local example of balancing heritage
protection with housing, climate and equity priorities. The West End also used to
be a mansion district, but now includes an eclectic mix of architectural styles and
residents across a wide income range. As Lee articulates in The Heritage
Dilemma, “The West End, and neighbourhoods like it, remind us that there can
be a nuanced approach to heritage protection. It doesn’t have to be an all-or-
nothing dilemma between protecting everything or saving nothing. It can be
messier than that. And given how messy our heritage is, I think that’s okay.”;4
10. Historically land use policies have been used as a means of exclusion. In 2020,
Vancouver City Council unanimously approved a motion from Councillor Kirby-
Yung focused on “Discriminatory Covenants, Language and Encumbrances on
Vancouver Land Titles”. The motion sought to address this history of excluding
populations along lines of social difference, affirming the City’s commitment to
“inclusive community that supports the values of equity, justice, and well-being
for all, and to ensuring we learn from the past and remain proactive in preventing
incidents of discrimination”. Land use policy that continues to function in ways
that exclude residents from a neighbourhood due to social differences of class as
well as race is a continuation of these historic harms;5
11. CMHC recently estimated that British Columbia’s housing supply gap for 2030
has increased markedly, with 560,000 more homes needed than the current rate
that we are building as of 2022.6 The supply gap is growing much faster than
BC’s municipalities are addressing it. Vancouver’s own housing needs
assessment found a current and future need for 136,000 homes over the
following 10 years.7 The Provincial government’s Housing Supply Act has set
3 “The Heritage Dilemma”, produced by Uytae Lee and CBC Vancouver. Available at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Re_mShtG0-4
4 “The Heritage Dilemma”, produced by Uytae Lee and CBC Vancouver. Available at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Re_mShtG0-4
5 “Discriminatory Covenants, Language and Encumbrances on Vancouver Land Titles.” City of Vancouver motion from Councillor
Kirby-Yung. February, 2020. Available at: https://council.vancouver.ca/20200225/documents/motionb13.pdf
6 “Estimating how much housing we’ll need by 2030”, CMHC. Available at: https://www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca/blog/2023/estimating-how-
much-housing-we-need-by-2030
7 “City of Vancouver Housing Needs Report, April 2022”. Available at: https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/pds-housing-policy-housing-
needs-report.pdf

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 8
housing targets based on need that the City of Vancouver has committed to
meeting or exceeding;
12. Vancouver’s long time practice of building new rental housing where there is
already a concentration of rental housing has created a high level of stress and
uncertainty for renters and led to significant displacement. We can minimize
eviction and displacement, while adding new housing options for all incomes, by
building where there are the fewest number of current renters. Shaughnessy has
the lowest density of rented dwellings in Vancouver. In 2016, Shaughnessy had
1.7 rented dwellings per hectare compared to 124.9 in the West End;
13. The City of Vancouver strives to be a welcoming, healthy and sustainable city,
but exclusionary zoning, which bans affordable housing in some
neighbourhoods, makes existing inequality and unaffordability worse in all
neighbourhoods. Unlocking Shaughnessy and building affordable housing
options here and across Vancouver makes a better city for all of us.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to report back by Q4 2024 with a plan and timeline to bring
forward policies and recommended amendments for consideration at public hearing to
add badly needed housing, shops and services in Shaughnessy, as defined in the City of
Vancouver’s local planning area boundaries, with a specific focus on rental housing and
family sized housing options, with bonus density available to support non-profit, co-op,
co-housing, and mixed income rental housing. And that the plan and timeline be
implementable during this term of Council;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to consider the need to balance existing heritage
protections with the City’s housing, climate and equity objectives, with the objective of
enabling Shaughnessy’s population density to reach at least the city average by 2050,
and include those considerations as part of the Q4 2024 report;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to consider options for funding infrastructure
upgrades related to an increase in housing options, including addressing sewer capacity,
as well as the City’s obligation to replace combined sewers, and include those
recommendations as part of the Q4 2024 report.
LOST (Vote No. 09652)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim opposed)
* * * * *
Prior to the start of Council Members’ Motion 3, Vice-Chair Zhou relinquished the Chair to Chair
Bligh until the end of the item.
* * * * *
3. Enhancing Housing Density Near Under-Enrolled Vancouver Schools
The Committee heard from four speakers who spoke in support of the motion.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 9
* * * * *
During discussion, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
That the Committee extend the meeting past 12 pm in order to complete Council
Members’ Motion 3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver has the following Mission Statement: “To create a great
city of communities, which cares about its people, its environment and the
opportunities to live, work and prosper.” (POLICY NUMBER: CG-001-01);
2. The health and vitality of Vancouver's communities is one of the reasons our city
is considered one of the best places on earth to live. To ensure the continued
sustainability and liveability of our neighbourhoods, City staff work with
community groups and other agencies to address critical social issues that affect
us all and to ensure the needs of all residents are met;
3. According to the Vancouver School Board (VSB), the school district has seen a
26-year history of generally declining enrolment despite an overall increase in
Vancouver’s population. Several factors have contributed to this enrolment
decline including an aging population, a reduced birth rate, and housing
unaffordability and unattainability that has resulted in a greater number of
families with school aged children moving out of the city;8
4. According to the VSB, Kindergarten to Grade 12 enrolment in 2011 was 51,758
students, but in 2021 enrolment was just 47,386. This represents an 8.4 per cent
decline in VSB enrolment over the last 10 years or roughly 4,400 fewer students.
Current VSB forecasts indicate a further decline in the years ahead. Examples of
Vancouver schools with declining enrollment include Southlands Elementary and
Bayview Community Elementary;9
8 According to the VSB, both the birth rate and the number of school-aged children continue to decline in the city. And although
there is growth of school-aged children in certain high-density areas of the city such as Olympic Village, the North Cambie Corridor,
and Downtown core, this growth is offset by the declining number of school aged children in other areas in Vancouver (District
Enrolment Considerations – Feb 14, 2023). https://www.vsb.bc.ca/page/62596/district-enrolment-considerations
9 From the VSB Board Chair Annual Report for 2022 (dated October 31, 2022): The VSB is a large, urban and multicultural school
district that manages and maintains a total of 122 sites, comprised of 88 elementary schools, 12 annexes, 18 secondary schools, 1
online learning school (VLN), and 1 alternate secondary school. https://www.vsb.bc.ca/page/38012/board-chair-annual-report-2022

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 10
5. Families with children are key to a diverse and vibrant society. Making sure
Vancouver has the right kinds of housing to support families is therefore
important to the overall success of our city;
6. To meet the needs of the Vancouver’s growing population and to ensure that our
city remains vibrant and diverse, it is important to have a varied supply of
housing, including new forms of attainable and affordable housing for families
with children to reinvigorate our neighbourhoods and repopulate the city’s
considerable number of valuable school sites, many of which suffer from
under-enrollment and risk being lost forever;
7. Housing Vancouver is the City’s 10-year housing strategy and intended to reduce
the city’s housing affordability gap and provide a strong foundation for the future
of Vancouver. The strategy aligns with the long-range Vancouver Plan which is
meant to guide growth and change in the city for the next 30 years. The stated
intent of the Vancouver Plan is to present a unified vision of the city’s future by
implementing bold Council-approved plans to address climate and affordability
issues, to align with regional planning initiatives, and to advance Reconciliation,
equity, and resiliency initiatives;10
8. A key goal of the Vancouver Plan is to create complete, connected, and culturally
vibrant neighbourhoods;
9. In November 2022, the Province of BC enacted the Housing Supply Act which
gives the Province the authority to set housing targets in municipalities, starting
with those known to have the greatest need and highest projected population
growth (the Housing Supply Act came into force in May 2023). The provincial
targets are intended to encourage municipalities to address local barriers to
construction so that housing can be built faster, including updating zoning bylaws
and streamlining local development approval processes. A target of 28,900
housing units has been set for the City of Vancouver;
10. On September 14, 2023, Council voted unanimously to open up neighbourhoods
across the city to allow for the development of multiplexes that will create homes
for families and help a greater number of people build a future in Vancouver. It
means more people will now have the opportunity to call Vancouver
neighbourhoods home with up to six strata units, or up to eight secured rental
units on larger lots, allowed on lots previously reserved for single-family homes
or duplexes;
11. The zoning changes implemented by Council to allow multiplex housing in
neighbourhoods across the city directly aligns with the objectives of the Housing
Vancouver strategy and the Vancouver Plan, including the goal of creating
neighbourhoods that are more complete and connected, with more housing
choice. The changes implemented by Council also align with the Province’s
Homes for People housing plan which encourages construction of small-scale,
multi-unit homes through zoning changes, more housing for middle-income
households, and streamlined permitting processes;
10 According to the Vancouver Plan, about 86,000 existing households in Vancouver need better housing. This number is expected
to increase by 50,000 over the next 10 years, with equity-denied groups disproportionately impacted.
https://council.vancouver.ca/20220706/documents/cfsc1presentation.PDF

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 11
12. On Monday, October 16, 2023, Council gave direction to staff to accelerate
several housing delivery actions to provide more housing options for people
across the city, including direction to proceed with implementation and
pre-zoning of the city’s 26 Village Areas outlined in the Vancouver Plan to
increase the supply of townhouses, multiplex buildings, and mixed-use low-rise
buildings between 3-6 storeys;
13. A known planning gap exists between the City’s growth plans and VSB land-use
decisions whereby the VSB’s demographic forecasting does not effectively
incorporate the City’s municipal growth projections and city land-use planning;
14. An 8.4 percent decline in VSB enrolment over the last 10 years, which represents
roughly 4,400 fewer students, threatens the health and vitality of Vancouver's
neighbourhoods and communities and places valuable school sites at risk of
being lost forever. Ensuring that our city has the right types of housing to support
families is therefore vitally important to the success, sustainability, and ongoing
vibrancy of our city and underscores the need for specific policy tools focused on
increasing family-oriented housing density in proximity to under-enrolled
Vancouver schools.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to engage with Vancouver School Board (VSB) staff to explore
opportunities to increase family-oriented density in proximity to Vancouver school sites,
in accordance with a variety of City of Vancouver planning objectives, with particular
emphasis on Vancouver schools that are at risk of closure due to under enrollment and
provide an initial report back to Council with recommendations by the end of Q3 2024;
FURTHER THAT Council requests the Mayor write to the Vancouver School Board
(VSB) and the BC Ministry of Education requesting further consultation with the City of
Vancouver regarding demographic projections for school enrollment to ensure that the
projections account for any City planning and land-use changes.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09653)
(Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:07 pm and reconvened at 1:51 pm with Vice-Chair Zhou in the
Chair.
* * * * *
4. Working with Youth Climate Corps Vancouver
At the beginning of this item, Councillor Boyle declared a Conflict of Interest on Council
Members’ Motion 4, as her husband does climate change advocacy work including advocating
for a National Youth Climate Corps. Councillor Boyle left the meeting at 1:54 pm and did not
return until the completion of the item at 3:10 pm.
The Committee heard from ten speakers who spoke in support of the motion.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 12
* * * * *
During discussion, it was
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT under Section 8.8 of the Procedure By-law, the Committee be permitted a five
minute extension to further speak to Council Members’ Motion 4.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSY
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
* * * * *
During discussion, Vice-Chair Zhou relinquished the Chair to Mayor Sim in order to make
comments on the motion and resumed the Chair afterwards.
* * * * *
Following discussion, it was
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Mayor Sim
THAT Council take a 10 minute recess.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSY
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote due to Conflict of Interest)
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Despite climate change accelerating far faster than scientists predicted, with
increasingly devastating impacts including this year’s extreme heat, droughts,
storms and fires, Canadian governments at all levels have failed to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions in line with their pledges;
2. The City of Vancouver pledged to reduce our GHG emissions by 50% by 2030
and achieve net zero emissions by 2050, but have so far only reduced our
emissions by 10%;
3. Youth are particularly impacted by an increasingly uncertain and frightening
future, leading to extreme anxiety, exacerbated by feelings that government
response is not commensurate with the climate emergency. A recent city council

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 13
report noted that 51% of youth experience eco-anxiety. A 2021 survey of 10,000
youth reveals that 60% of youth are very or exceedingly worried about the
climate crisis and 78% view their future as frightening;11
4. In 2020 youth established Youth Climate Corps BC to organize and advance
opportunities to be positively engaged in work to mitigate climate change. Their
first programs with the municipalities of Nelson and Kamloops included delivering
door-to-door public education about rebates and other climate programs,
developing retrofit plans for building owners, hands-on work in home energy
retrofits including improving insulation and installing heat pumps and solar
panels, wildfire mitigation, and decreasing organic waste;12
5. In September of 2023, the Biden-Harris Administration in the USA launched a
Climate Corps to train young people in clean energy, conservation, and climate
resilience skills, create good-paying jobs and tackle the climate crisis, benefiting
local communities;13
6. In Canada, since the spring of 2023, the David Suzuki Institute has been helping
coordinate efforts to establish a Youth Climate Corps Canada that would offer
training and employment for youth in work that would both help achieve climate
mitigation and resilience as well as alleviate the anxiety and helplessness many
youth feel in the face of accelerating climate change.14
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to:
a. Identify projects related to Vancouver’s Climate Emergency Action Plan
where the city can work with Youth Climate Corps Vancouver on projects
that educate and engage the public in both climate mitigation and
resilience that could, for example, include:
i. Home and building climate-smart retrofit programs, including green
roofs and production of renewable energy;
ii. Increasing and maintaining Vancouver’s tree canopy (e.g., an “adopt
a street tree” similar to “adopt a catch basin”) and neighbourhood
green streets;
iii. Reducing food waste;
b. Report back to Council by the end of Q1 2024 with some potential
projects including funding sources.
B. THAT the Mayor, on behalf of Council, write to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau,
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Chrystia Freeland, Minister for
Women and Gender Equality and Youth of Canada Marci Ian and Minister for
Environment and Climate Change Steven Guilbeault, expressing Council’s
11 The Most Significant Mental Health Impacts Affecting Local Youth Due to the Climate Crisis_ A Study of Selkirk College
Students.pdf
12 Partnership package 2023.pdf
13 American Climate Corps Will Put Thousands To Work Building A Stronger U.S. (forbes.com)
14 Canada Needs a Youth Climate Corps, and More | The Tyee

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 14
support for the federal government creating a national Youth Climate Corps that
would benefit local communities.
LOST (Vote No. 09654)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim opposed)
(Councillor Klassen abstained from the vote)
(Councillors Bligh absent for the vote)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
5. Delivering a New Supply of Middle-Income Housing in Vancouver
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver faces an unprecedented housing crisis characterized by
an acute shortage of affordable rental units, a significant increase in
homelessness, and unattainable market housing prices for most Vancouverites.
Collectively, these have serious impacts on the well-being and quality of life for
all Vancouver residents;
2. The City’s housing policies are built around a framework of housing strategies
and housing plans, including the Vancouver Plan and the Housing Vancouver
Strategy and across various City departments and agencies;
3. The City’s housing policy framework generally reflects a continuum of housing
typologies ranging from supportive and social housing to secured market and
non-market rentals, below-market home ownership, strata development such as
condominiums, townhouses, multiplexes, and other ground-oriented missing
middle and market housing;
4. The City of Vancouver owns considerable land assets and resources that can be
– and have been – utilized for housing initiatives. For example, the City’s
Property Endowment Fund (PEF), and Vancouver Affordable Housing
Endowment Fund (VAHEF);
5. The City has a wide range of policies and programs dedicated to the creation of
non-market housing such as the Social Housing or Rental Tenure (SHORT)
Program which accelerates the delivery of affordable housing by reducing
development approval times for high impact multi-family housing projects, the
Permanent Supportive Housing Program in partnership with BC Housing and
CMHC to deliver 300+ new supportive housing on City-owned sites, and the
Rapid Housing Initiative Program in partnership with CMHC and BC Housing for
the rapid delivery of over 200+ new affordable homes;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 15
6. An identified gap in the City’s housing continuum, as reflected in the existing
housing targets and housing typologies outlined in the Housing Vancouver
Strategy, etc., is the need for middle-income housing options for those with
incomes in the range of $80K to $180K per year (as per Provincial guidelines).
This includes housing for essential workers such as police and firefighters and
those working in the healthcare sector;15
7. The shortage of middle-income housing fundamentally threatens the city’s overall
sustainability and liveability and hinders economic growth and makes it difficult to
attract and retain the talent the city needs to prosper and to provide for the needs
of all Vancouverites;
8. The vision of Vancouver’s future, as articulated in the Vancouver Plan, is one
where neighbourhoods are more complete, inclusive, and resilient, and where
people of all ages, incomes, abilities, and backgrounds thrive;
9. Recently, the City’s executive leadership structure was adjusted in response to
key opportunities and pressures facing the City, notably those related to the
housing crisis, to ensure the City is well-positioned to fulfill the housing policy
directions set out by Council. Housing responsibilities are now being overseen
directly by the City Manager’s Office under a newly created Vancouver Housing
Development Office; and
10. The leadership restructuring and Vancouver Housing Development Office
streamlines housing delivery responsibilities under one office, which includes the
responsibility for non-market housing delivery alongside oversight of the VAHEF
portfolio. This transition will align housing delivery on City-owned land across the
housing continuum with the rest of the City’s real estate portfolio and housing
development team and creates new opportunities to achieve the City’s and
Council’s housing objectives.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to expand the existing mandate of the newly created
Vancouver Housing Development Office, which presently includes non-market housing
delivery and oversight of the Vancouver Affordable Housing Endowment Fund (VAHEF),
to include an additional responsibility to create and deliver middle-income housing on
City-owned land other than VAHEF properties;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to facilitate the creation of new programs, policies,
or mechanisms under the City’s Housing Development Office that will unlock the delivery
of new middle-income housing in the city on City-owned land, and report back by Q2
2024 with specific opportunities to leverage the new Office to achieve this goal;
AND FURTHER THAT staff apply the following directions regarding the delivery of
middle-income housing to achieve this new mandate, including:
15 The City’s 10-year housing targets embodied in the Housing Vancouver Strategy have 5 key goals:
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/housing-vancouver-update-2022.pdf
• 72,000 new homes over 10 years
• 2/3 of all new homes to be rental
• Half of all new homes to be affordable to incomes earning less than $80,000
• 40% of new homes to be suitable for families
An increase in low density ground-oriented housing forms such as townhouses and laneway homes

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 16
i. identifying potential sites/land assets
ii. assessing the range of possible units achievable across the housing
continuum
iii. exploring potential partnerships with First Nations, private sector/industry
partners, other government agencies, non-profits and faith-based groups
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09655)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 3:33 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 15, 2023
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, November 15, 2023,
at 3:33 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Peter Meiszner (Leave of Absence – Personal
Reasons)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Olivia Kam, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, November 15, 2023
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. Elimination of Minimum Parking Requirements – Phase 2
2. Minor Amendments to the Street and Traffic and Parking Meter By-laws
3. Commercial Vehicle Permit Program Improvements
4. 2023 Property Tax Policy Review – Revised Terms of Reference
5. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Bulldozers
Council Members’ Motions
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 15, 2023 2
2. Unlocking Shaughnessy: Building Affordable Housing Options for All of Us
3. Enhancing Housing Density Near Under-Enrolled Vancouver Schools
4. Working with Youth Climate Corps Vancouver
5. Delivering a New Supply of Middle-Income Housing in Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of November 15, 2023, as contained in Reports 1
through 5 and Council Members’ Motions 1 through 5, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1 to 2
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend Parking Meter By-law No. 2952 regarding miscellaneous
amendments (By-law No. 13858)
2. A By-law to amend Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 regarding miscellaneous
amendments (By-law No. 13859)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 3:35 pm.
* * * * *