REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
OCTOBER 18, 2023
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, October 18, 2023, at 9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Chair* (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – 1 pm to 5 pm)
Mayor Ken Sim* (Leave of Absence – Personal Reasons –
12:30 pm to 3 pm)
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– 4 pm to 10 pm)
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou, Vice Chair
ABSENT: Councillor Pete Fry (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee adopt Reports 4 and 6, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REPORTS
1. Building Safer Communities Program – Youth Safety and Violence Prevention
Strategy
October 6, 2023
Staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services along with a youth representative, provided a
presentation and staff responded to questions.
The Committee heard from 21 speakers in support of the report recommendations.
* * * * *
During debate and decision, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Mayor Sim
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past noon in order to complete Report 1 –
Building Safer Communities Program – Youth Safety and Violence Prevention Strategy.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council adopt the 2023 – 2026 Youth Safety and Violence Prevention
Strategy, as described generally in the Report dated October 6, 2023, entitled
“Building Safer Communities Program – Youth Safety and Violence Prevention
Strategy”, and as presented in Appendix A of the same Report.
B. THAT Council approve the program plan and funding allocations for the
remaining three-years of the Building Safer Communities Vancouver Program as
described in the Report dated October 6, 2023, entitled “Building Safer
Communities Program – Youth Safety and Violence Prevention Strategy”,

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 3
including the Granting Program to support community-based youth violence
prevention efforts developed through engagement with youth, public partners and
non-profit organizations to advance the priorities identified in the Strategy.
postponed
POSTPONEMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Committee refer debate and decision on the Report entitled, “Building Safer
Communities Program – Youth Safety and Violence Prevention Strategy”, to the Council
meeting on November 14, 2023, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED (Vote No. 09560)
(Councillors Boyle and Carr opposed)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12 pm and reconvened at 1:02 pm.
Following the recess, Vice-Chair Zhou assumed the role of Chair for the remainder of the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting as Chair Bligh was absent for Civic
Business.
* * * * *
2. 2024 Exempt Seniors Housing
October 5, 2023
In the absence of previously registered speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the by-law for 2024 Exempt Seniors Housing
attached as Appendix A of the Report dated October 5, 2023, entitled “2024
Exempt Seniors Housing”.
B. That Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment a by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Report dated
October 5, 2023, entitled “2024 Exempt Seniors Housing”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09568)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 4
3. Pilot Development Potential Relief Program – Stakeholder Feedback &
Considerations for 2024
October 3, 2023
Staff from Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management provided a presentation and
responded to questions.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive for information the stakeholder feedback on the 2023 Pilot
Development Potential Relief Program (the “DPRP”) as summarized in the Report
dated October 3, 2023, entitled “Pilot Development Potential Relief Program –
Stakeholder Feedback & Considerations for 2024”, and included as Appendix B of
the same Report.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, the continuation of the Pilot DPRP for the 2024
tax year, including the proposed refinements generally as outlined in the Report
dated October 3, 2023, entitled “Pilot Development Potential Relief Program –
Stakeholder Feedback & Considerations for 2024”.
C. THAT subject to B above, upon receiving from BC Assessment the list of properties
that meet the Provincial eligibility criteria (the “Provincial List”) for the 2024 tax
year, Council require the owner(s)/agent(s) of each property on the Provincial List
to provide a written declaration to the City, by February 29, 2024, that:
 the property was in use from October 1 to December 31, 2023;
 the primary use of the property does not fall into one or more of the City
exclusions; and
 the tenants/occupiers of the property must be informed of any tax relief
resulting from the 2024 Pilot DPRP;
D. THAT properties whose owner(s)/agent(s) fail to provide such written
declarations to the City by February 29, 2024 will not be considered for the 2024
Pilot DPRP.
E. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
be instructed to bring forward for enactment a Development Potential Tax Relief
Declaration By-law as soon as practical.
F. THAT based on the written declarations received, the Director of Finance be
instructed to report back for Council’s consideration, before March 31, 2024, the
2024 Pilot DPRP, including:
 a list of eligible properties;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 5
 the percentage of assessed land value subject to the DPRP general purpose
tax rate by neighborhood/zoning district;
 the DPRP general purpose tax rate (expressed as a percentage of the
blended rate for Classes 5 and 6); and
 the projected tax rate impact based on the 2024 Completed Roll.
G. THAT Council request that the Mayor write a letter to the Province to seek
Vancouver Charter amendments to enable application of development potential
relief on the Provincial school tax and taxes levied by TransLink, Metro Vancouver,
BC Assessment and Municipal Finance Authority of BC.
H. THAT the Director of Finance be instructed to continue to seek to engage the
Province and BC Assessment to address the assessment data limitations.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09561)
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
4. Provincial Funding Request – Access to Washrooms and Water in Vancouver
October 6, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve a funding request of $3.8 million to the Province to support
ongoing and increased access to washrooms in the Downtown Eastside in response to
persistent homelessness and a lack of available facilities.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09565)
5. Provincial ‘Growing Communities Fund’: Allocation to Temporary Plazas, Turf
Field at Moberly Park and Spray Park at Ross Park
October 10, 2023
Staff from Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management along with staff from Parks Board
responded to questions.
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve an additional allocation of $10 million from the Growing
Communities Fund (GCF) towards:
i. the conversion of three temporary plazas to a permanent configuration;
and
ii. the Turf Field at Moberly Park and Spray Park at Ross Park projects.
This is in addition to the $10 million that was allocated to the above projects on
July 26, 2023 bringing the total allocation to $20 million, resulting in a remaining

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 6
unallocated GCF balance of $13.6 million.
B. THAT Council approve a Multi-year Capital Budget of $10 million for the
conversion of three temporary plazas to a permanent configuration, to allow for
the projects to commence without delay.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back with scope and detailed costing
information for the Turf Field at Moberly Park and Spray Park at Ross Park
projects in 2024.
carried
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the phrase, “subject to Park Board approval after public engagement”, be added
to the end of A, subsection ii;
FURTHER THAT in C, the words, “direct staff to”, be replaced with “request that the
Park Board”;
AND FURTHER THAT in C, the words, “if approved Park Board”, be inserted between
the words “project” and “in 2024”.
LOST (Vote No. 09562)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague and Zhou opposed)
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
The amendment having lost, the main motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.
09563) with Councillor Carr abstaining from the vote and Councillor Bligh absent for the vote.
6. Contract Award for Marpole Community Centre Construction Project
October 10, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve a $3.3 million increase in the Multi-year Capital Budget
from $88.0 million to $91.3 million for Marpole Community Centre project; source
of funding to be Development Cost Levies (DCL) for Parks from the Oakridge-
Langara district. Expenditures for 2023 will be managed within the current annual
capital expenditure budget.
B. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, City’s Director of
Legal Services, and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into a
contract with Heatherbrae Builders Co. Ltd. as general contractor for Marpole
Community Centre Construction Project, for a term lasting until services are
complete (estimated at approximately 2.5 years), with an estimated total contract

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 7
value of $76,639,700.00, plus GST over the term of the project. The source of
funding is the approved capital budget for the construction of Marpole
Community Centre.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Development be authorized to execute on
behalf of the City the contract contemplated by B above.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of B and
C above unless and until such contract has been duly executed by authorised the
City signatories identified in the clauses above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09566)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Councillor Bligh be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from meetings
on October 26, 2023, from 6:00 pm to 10:00 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Fry be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on October 26, 2023, from 6:00 pm to 10:00 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business
from meetings on October 18, 2023, from 9:15 am to 11:15 am, and from 4:00 pm to
10:00 pm, on November 1, 2023, from 7:00 pm to 10:00 pm, and on November 2, 2023,
from 6:30 pm to 10:00 pm;
AND FURTHER THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on October 18, 2023, from 4:00 pm to 10:00 pm, and all day on
October 31, 2023.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 8
2. Preserving Vancouver’s Leadership in the Creative, Climate, and Cleantech
Sectors and Strengthening Local Economic Development
The Committee heard from six speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The increasing impacts of climate change, and government policy to mitigate
those impacts, are driving a worldwide shift of capital and finance away from
fossil fuels and toward decarbonized and de-climate-risked portfolios, with
investors increasingly seeking to limit their exposure to climate and carbon risk in
preparation for the global transition to a clean and sustainable economy;1
2. In a competitive market for skilled workers, cities with vibrant main streets and
public spaces enjoy a competitive edge, and the foundation of vibrant streets and
spaces is strong, creative and diverse local businesses;
3. Employees increasingly prefer to work for environmentally sustainable
companies.2 Vancouver companies, seeking to attract and retain talent in a tight
labour market, need to develop employee value propositions that address this
shift;
4. Decades of work has gone into making Vancouver attractive to environmentally
sustainable companies and competitively positioning our city to benefit from the
global reorientation of capital towards climate resilient and climate-mitigating
investments;
5. Vancouver has created and invested in institutions like the Vancouver Economic
Commission to help attract environmentally sustainable companies, build the
capacity of local leaders and businesses to promote their products and services
globally and position Vancouver as an international leader in the green and
creative economy;
6. Vancouver is home to leading clean technology companies, traditional resource
sector industries that have invested in clean technology, a globally renowned
creative economy that includes film, animation, game design, and more. These
strengths position Vancouver well to grow in prosperity and prominence as the
world shifts off of fossil fuels;
1 “Clean energy investment is extending its lead over fossil fuels, boosted by energy security strengths”, from the
International Energy Agency. Available at: https://www.iea.org/news/clean-energy-investment-is-extending-its-lead-
over-fossil-fuels-boosted-by-energy-security-strengths. And “Climate investing: Continuing breakout growth through
uncertain times” from McKinsey Sustainability. Available at: https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-
insights/climate-investing-continuing-breakout-growth-through-uncertain-times
2https://www.esgtoday.com/ibm-survey-employees-more-likely-to-accept-jobs-from-sustainable-companies/

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 9
7. Investors across the world are increasingly incorporating Environmental, Social
and Governance (ESG) factors into their investment decisions, making these
factors a key consideration for any city looking to attract investment;
8. However, without continued focus, Vancouver risks moving against the grain of
global investment patterns and ceding its leadership to other cities;
9. According to the Canadian Venture Capital Association, Q1 2023 saw a record-
breaking amount of venture capital investment in the cleantech sector - with
Alberta outpacing BC for the first time.3 Given these trends, cities that foster
clean innovation will grow and prosper, while cities that do not will see their
competitiveness decline, as capital is invested elsewhere and as they are
exposed to greater climate and emissions driven costs;
10. Climate policy at multiple levels of government will expose carbon-emitting
businesses to ever-increasing costs, highlighting the opportunity inherent in the
green economy, and the disadvantages associated with delaying transition;
11. The competitiveness of Vancouver, the Lower Mainland, and all of British
Columbia is already challenged by the dire shortage of industrial land, which
make up just four per cent of the total land mass in the Vancouver region. This
shortage continues to result in the loss of local jobs and investment. As an
example, a recent Vancouver Board of Trade study showed that the economic
impact of these lost opportunities to Calgary is estimated at over 6,300 direct
jobs, $477 million in wages, and $500 million in GDP;4
12. Vancouver is also facing significant costs in the near future related to waste
disposal in the region, coupled with significant environmental impacts resulting
from the ongoing need to transport waste generated in Vancouver to other
municipalities or regions. Local circular innovation and opportunities to drive
Vancouver’s local circular economy present tangible solutions for addressing
serious economic, infrastructure, and climate challenges ahead;
13. The Vancouver Economic Commission has had a significant impact on
Vancouver’s economy, bringing in over $3 billion in investment in technology, film
and television production, and green economy businesses. The Vancouver
Economic Commission has engaged and supported thousands of local
stakeholders, workers and entrepreneurs over the past 28 years, housing
considerable knowledge, networks, partnerships, and history that could be
leveraged into the creation of Vancouver’s new business and economy office;
14. Additionally, Vancouver has a knowledgeable and creative local business sector
and a strong ecosystem of BIA and local business leaders who have valuable
insight and suggestions for supporting small and local business development,
3 “Canadian Cleantech Sector Gains Momentum with Record Number of Investments in Q1 2023” from the Canadian
Venture Capital and Private Equity Association. Available at: https://central.cvca.ca/canadian-cleantech-sector-gains-
momentum-with-record-investments-in-q1-2023
4 “The Consequences of the Industrial Land Shortage” 2023 study from the Vancouver Board of Trade. Available at:
https://www.boardoftrade.com/advocacy/industrial-land-shortage

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 10
retention and expansion in Vancouver. These local businesses are critical to the
vibrancy, character and economic life of Vancouver;
15. A thriving local business sector strengthens the Vancouver economy. A 2019
study from LOCO BC found that local businesses recirculate up to 4.6 times
more revenue than national or global chain stores or multinational corporations,
keeping up to 63% of revenue in the local economy (vs 14% of revenue to
multinationals). Local businesses produce up to 8.4 times more jobs per square
foot and up to 8.1 times more revenue per square foot than multinationals;5
16. Building on these strengths, the new business and economy office could align
Vancouver’s goals for local economic resilience and global economic
competitiveness in a deliberate and coordinated way. But in order to be
successful and effective, it must be equipped with the knowledge, expertise and
sufficient staffing and resources to accomplish this important work; and
17. The COVID pandemic has been hard on business, workers and residents, and
has had significant impacts on the local economy. As we move forward,
Vancouver has an opportunity to build on our strengths, taking a holistic
approach to global economic competitiveness and local economic resilience and
inclusion, growing an economy that serves all incomes, sustainably.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff that the City of Vancouver’s proposed new Business
and Economy Office should be structured to prioritize support to local businesses
and to maintain strategic focus on economic sustainability that supports a
resilient and diverse climate prepared economy;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to consult with local BIA and local business
leaders, and with post secondary schools, non-profits, and other stakeholders
who have been engaged with the Vancouver Economic Commission in
community economic development work, to inform the purpose, vision, goals and
formation of Vancouver’s new Business and Economy Office, and report back
with recommendations by Q2, 2024. This consultation should also engage
regional, provincial, national and global stakeholders who benefit from and
support Vancouver’s economic innovation;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to prepare a report that identifies
Vancouver Economic Commission’s social, relational and intellectual assets and
identifies implications and opportunities to transfer them to the new Business and
Economy Office, to ensure continuity and prevent delays to current projects and
advances already achieved.
B. THAT Council direct staff to resource the new Business and Economy Office with
sufficient staffing and advisory strength to support local business and continue to
5 “The Economic Impact of Local Businesses”, from LOCO BC. Available at:
https://silkstart.s3.amazonaws.com/61c38e5e-0086-4492-93bb-10fd70e4f3fd.pdf

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 11
strengthen Vancouver’s leadership in the creative, climate, circular, and
cleantech sectors.
C. THAT Council direct staff to engage with Invest Vancouver on how Vancouver’s
strategic and competitive interests will fit into Invest Vancouver’s mandate, and
report back to Council on how this will be achieved.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the motion entitled “Preserving Vancouver’s Leadership in the Creative, Climate
and Cleantech Sectors and Strengthening Local Economic Development”, be referred to
staff for consideration in their ongoing operational and transition work.
CARRIED (Vote No. 09564)
(Councillors Boyle and Carr opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 3:05 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
OCTOBER 18, 2023
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, October 18, 2023, at
3:05 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– 1 pm to 5 pm)
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Pete Fry (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, October 18, 2023
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. Building Safer Communities Program – Youth Safety and Violence Prevention Strategy
2. 2024 Exempt Seniors Housing
3. Pilot Development Potential Relief Program – Stakeholder Feedback & Considerations
for 2024
4. Provincial Funding Request - Access to Washrooms and Water in Vancouver

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, October 18, 2023 2
5. Provincial ‘Growing Communities Fund’: Allocation to Temporary Plazas, Turf Field at
Moberly Park and Spray Park at Ross Park
6. Contract Award for Marpole Community Centre Construction Project
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
2. Preserving Vancouver’s Leadership in the Creative, Climate and Cleantech Sectors and
Strengthening Local Economic Development
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of October 18, 2023, as contained in Reports 1
through 6 and Council Members’ Motions 1 and 2, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to exempt from taxation certain lands and improvements pursuant to section
396 of the Vancouver Charter (By-law No. 13827)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 3:07 pm.
* * * * *