REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JULY 12, 2023
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, July 12, 2023, at 9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Lenny Zhou, Vice Chair
Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Olivia Kam, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Vice-Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish,
and Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Vice-Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who
work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council adopt Reports 1, 2, 5, and 6, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
PRESENTATIONS
1. Adding Missing Middle Housing and Simplifying Regulations in Low Density
Neighbourhoods
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT under section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, Council ask a second round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council direct staff, that as part of forthcoming proposed amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law, intended to allow new Missing Middle housing options
and simplify regulations in low density areas including consolidating the nine current RS
zones to a single zone, to also change the classification name for low density areas to
R1 Residential Inclusive, to reflect the wider range of housing choice, tenure and lower
cost of home ownership intended in these areas.
amended

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 3
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the words “also change” be struck and replaced with “consider changing”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 09405)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung and Klassen opposed)
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the amended motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Vote No. 09406), with Councillor Fry absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council direct staff, that as part of forthcoming proposed amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law, intended to allow new Missing Middle housing options
and simplify regulations in low density areas including consolidating the nine current RS
zones to a single zone, to consider changing the classification name for low density
areas to R1 Residential Inclusive, to reflect the wider range of housing choice, tenure
and lower cost of home ownership intended in these areas.
REPORTS
1. Contract Award for the Construction of Sewer Separation on Oak Street
June 12, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with Jacob Bros.
Construction Inc., for the Construction of Sewer Separation on Oak Street, for a
term of approximately sixteen (16) months, with an estimated contract value of
$19,775,000.00, plus applicable taxes over the sixteen (16) month term, to be
funded through a combination of the 2019-2022 Growth related Utility Sewer
Upgrade program, the 2023-2026 Oak Street Growth Sewer Upgrade program,
and the 2023-2026 MRN Rehabilitation program.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of the Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of the
City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A and B above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09411)
(Councillors Bligh and Fry absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 4
2. Pre-Qualification of Landscape and Civil Contractors
June 21, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to implement the Parks Procurement Efficiency
Program – Construction (“PPEP-C”), in which the City will pre-qualify certain
landscape and civil contractors and have them competitively bid, per PPEP-C’s
rules of engagement, on an estimated $55M (plus applicable taxes) of landscape
and construction projects, over a three-year term, funded through the City’s capital
and operating budgets in accordance with the terms generally described in the
Report dated June 21, 2023, entitled “Pre-Qualification of Landscape and Civil
Contractors”.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to the City’s Chief Procurement Officer to
execute memoranda of understanding with each of the following pre-qualified
landscape and civil contractors: Cedar Crest Lands BC Ltd., GPM Civil Contracting
Inc., Lafarge Canada, Landesign Landscape Construction Ltd., Rust Investments
Ltd., and Wilco Civil Inc., to participate in PPEP-C in accordance with the terms
generally described in the Report dated June 21, 2023, entitled “Pre-Qualification
of Landscape and Civil Contractors”.
C. THAT Council delegate its authority to the General Manager of the Park Board and
the Chief Procurement Officer to execute construction agreements with the
landscape and civil contractor who submits the lowest bid, per PPEP-C’s rules of
engagement, for each landscape and construction project that City staff tenders to
the pre-qualified landscape and civil contractors under PPEP-C.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s approval of A
through C above unless and until the parties execute and deliver the legal
agreements described in A through C above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09412)
(Councillors Bligh and Fry absent for the vote)
3. Public Notice By-law
April 18, 2023
The Acting City Clerk along with Staff from Legal Services answered questions.
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, a Public Notice By-law generally in
accordance with Appendix A of the Report dated April 18, 2023, entitled “Public
Notice By-law”.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 5
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
a Public Notice By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Report
dated April 18, 2023, entitled “Public Notice By-law”, to come into effect on July
31, 2023.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09407)
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
4. Hastings Park – PNE Master Plan Program: Amphitheatre Renewal Update
June 14, 2023
Staff from Business Planning and Project Support, Real Estate, Environment and Facilities
Management and Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management along with external
representatives from Pacific National Exhibition answered questions.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the recommendations, and one speaker
in opposition.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the updated scope of the PNE Outdoor Amphitheatre
project at Hastings Park as described in the Report dated June 14, 2023, entitled
“Hastings Park – PNE Master Plan Program: Amphitheatre Renewal Update”,
and an increase in the Multi-year Capital Budget from $64.8 million to $103.7
million; sources of funding to be:
• $98.9 million repayable loan from the Capital Financing Fund on terms
and conditions to the satisfaction of the Director of Finance:
A base loan of up to $77.8 million for the Amphitheatre, with an
o
estimated repayment term of 11 years; and
A second loan of up to $21.1 million for additional design elements to
o
improve venue experience and generate additional revenue, with an
estimated repayment term of 5 years; and
• $4.8 million from the Hastings Park Reserve previously approved for
planning and design work.
Expenditures for 2023 will be managed within the current annual capital
expenditure budget.
B. THAT Council approve an increase in the Multi-year Capital Budget from $4.6
million to $6.0 million for the associated site-wide infrastructure renewal program
at Hastings Park; source of funding to be the Hastings Park Reserve.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 6
Expenditures for 2023 will be managed within the current annual capital
expenditure budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09408)
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
5. Debenture Program 2023
June 13, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize the issuance of up to $100 million of City of Vancouver
debentures, utilizing borrowing authorities from the 2019-2022 Capital Plan and
approved as part of the 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 Capital Budgets as follows:
Sewers $ 50,215,676
Neighbourhood Energy Utility $ 8,829,324
Replacement of existing civic facilities $ 40,955,000
Total $ 100,000,000
B. THAT, until the borrowing authorities established pursuant to A above, are
exercised, the Director of Finance be empowered to act and instruct the City’s
bank syndicate to proceed with the issuance of the debentures, and to set the
interest rate, price, and other terms and conditions on which the debentures will
be issued by the City.
It should be noted that once the Director of Finance instructs the bank syndicate
to offer the debentures in the public market, Council will be required to enact the
appropriate borrowing by-law to authorize issuance of the debentures.
C. THAT, pursuant to A and B above, Council authorize the issuance of City of
Vancouver Sustainability Bond as part of its regular debenture funding program,
as it amplifies the City's commitment to environmental and social sustainability.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09413)
(Councillors Bligh and Fry absent for the vote)
6. 2023 Property Tax Policy Review Commission
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the Terms of Reference and a budget of up to $150,000 for the
Property Tax Policy Review Commission; source of funding to be 2023 Operating
Budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09414)
(Councillors Bligh and Fry absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 7
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTION
A1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT Councillor Meiszner be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on July 25, 2023, from 5 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Bligh be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on September 12 to 14, 2023.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
A2. Ensuring a Net Increase in Dignified Supportive Housing Units by Renewing
Leases or Finding New Sites for Temporary Modular Housing While New
Supportive Housing is Built
The Committee heard from ten speakers in support of the motion, and one speaker who spoke
to other aspects of the motion.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting extend past noon to complete Item A2 - Ensuring a Net Increase in
Dignified Supportive Housing Units by Renewing Leases or Finding New Sits for
Temporary Modular Housing While New Supportive Housing is Built.
LOST
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
Subsequently, the Committee recessed at 12:01 pm and reconvened at 2:09 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 8
1. Vancouver is in the midst of a growing homelessness humanitarian crisis, with
people who are homeless having about half the life expectancy as housed
people in BC.
2. While the 2023 official homeless count has not been released yet, the 2020
Vancouver count identified 2,095 residents who are homeless (these counts are
widely understood to be an undercount). Of those 2,095 residents counted:
1. 84% were living in Vancouver before they became homeless
2. 23% were seniors (over 55) and the number of homeless seniors has been
growing since 2008
3. 35% were youth in care or had been a child or youth in care
4. 23% reported having a learning disability or cognitive impairment, 35% had
a physical disability, and 26% reported having an acquired brain injury
5. 39% identified as Indigenous or Aboriginal
3. The Ministry of Poverty Reduction says that approximately 2000 people who use
Downtown Eastside social assistance offices receive the $75 supplement for
people with no fixed address. About 1150 more in the rest of the city receive that
supplement. This means that approximately 3150 people who receive social
assistance in the city have no home, but more are probably homeless and not
receiving social assistance.
4. That there are about 1068 social housing units at shelter rate under construction,
pending occupancy, approved through rezoning or with issued development
permit, or anticipated to come through rezoning or development permit prior to
the end of 2027 in Vancouver. The province recently announced that it is buying
Chalmers Lodge with 115 units for shelter rate housing. That brings the total
additional units to house the current over 3000 homeless people to 1183 by
approximately 2030.
5. Vancouver is losing affordable SRO units to rent increases, fires, and habitability
issues, at a rate of approximately 150-200 per year. Losing TMH units would
make the current situation even more dire. And if Vancouver sees a net loss in
supportive housing units, we will likely have more encampments.
6. There are more than 750 units of Temporary Modular Housing in Vancouver, with
leases expiring between 2024 and 2028. Tenants of Larwill Place at Cambie and
Dunsmuir (98 TMH units) are moving to other supportive housing in the area this
summer as the new Vancouver Art Gallery progresses. Aneki Lodge at Powell
and Jackson (39 TMH units) is intended to be redeveloped into a 154 unit new
permanent social housing building and community economic development hub,
with the redevelopment timeline subject to senior government funding.
7. Research on self-reported health and housing outcomes of TMH tenants
demonstrates that these homes have had significant positive outcomes for
tenants. For example, these homes have benefited tenants by providing
increased housing stability, improved quality of life, improved health, and
reduced use of emergency services.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 9
8. Supportive housing costs less than homelessness. Supportive housing residents
are 64% less likely than shelter clients to use ambulance services, and the
average hospital stay for supportive housing residents is 50% less than shelter
clients. Homelessness also adds significant costs to the City budget, including
costs of police, outreach workers, sanitation, and shelters.
9. Minister of Housing Ravi Kahlon recently commented on the Larwill TMH housing
in saying, “If the City of Vancouver were to offer us an alternative location, we
certainly would look at the opportunity.”
10. The temporary aspect of Vancouver’s Temporary Modular Housing projects to
date is the land lease arrangements. The physical buildings are durable and can
last for decades, and are capable of being moved. While the cost of moving the
buildings is significant, it is lower than the cost of building new. And renewing or
extending leases is the least costly option. Given the scale of the housing and
homelessness crisis in Vancouver and across BC, both TMH and permanent
supportive housing play important roles in the spectrum of housing, and are
currently needed.
11. The MOU signed between the City, Park Board and Province on March 31, 2021
says, the role of the city is “to bring forward available land for housing or shelter
to expedite land use decisions necessary to rapidly respond to housing need.”
12. Now is the time to plan to find sites for all the temporary modular housing so that
when their leases expire, the city and people who are homeless don’t lose that
desperately needed housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to work toward renewing or extending existing
leases for Temporary Modular Housing, and report back by Q2 2024, to
reduce uncertainty for tenants and operators and to ensure no net loss of
Temporary Modular Housing units while new permanent supportive
housing is being built.
B. THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back on options for
extending the current time limit on Temporary Modular Housing beyond
the 10 year limit currently outlined in section 11.3.4.3 of the Zoning and
Development By-law.
C. THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back on new longer-term
or permanent sites for Temporary Modular Housing buildings where
leases can’t be renewed, so that these buildings can continue to
contribute to reducing homelessness through a net increase in total units
alongside new permanent supportive housing.
LOST (Vote No. 09415)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 10
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Committee adjourned at 3:02 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JULY 12, 2023
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, July 12, 2023, at
3:02 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner (Leave of Absence – Personal
Business – 3 pm to 4 pm)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Olivia Kam, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, July 12, 2023
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
Presentation:
1. Adding Missing Middle Housing and Simplifying Regulations in Low Density
Neighbourhoods
Reports:
1. Contract Award for the Construction of Sewer Separation on Oak Street
2. Pre-Qualification of Landscape and Civil Contractors
3. Public Notice By-law

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 2
4. Hastings Park - PNE Master Plan Program: Amphitheatre Renewal Update
5. Debenture Program 2023
6. 2023 Property Tax Policy Review Commission
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
2. Ensuring a Net Increase in Dignified Supportive Housing Units by Renewing Leases or
Finding New Sites for Temporary Modular Housing While New Supportive Housing is
Built
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of July 12, 2023, as contained in Presentation 1,
Reports 1 to 6 and Council Members’ Motions 1 and 2, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 3:04 pm.
* * * * *