REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OCTOBER 29, 2025
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, October 29, 2025, at 9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by the Part 14
of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Peter Meiszner, Chair
Councillor Lisa Dominato, Vice Chair (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business)*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung*
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Mayor Ken Sim (Leave of Absence – Personal Reasons)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee adopt Reports 2 to 5, and 7, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Dominato and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
REPORTS
1. 2025 Q3 Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
October 16, 2025
Staff from Finance and Supply Chain Management and Engineering Services responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve Capital Plan and Capital Budget adjustments as outlined in the
Report dated October 16, 2025, entitled “2025 Q3 Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments
and Closeouts”, and Appendices B and C of the above-noted report, which will result in:
a. An increase of $29.4 million to the 2023-2026 Capital Plan; and
b. An increase of $39.2 million to the Multi-Year Capital Project Budgets.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11065)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
2. Contract Award for Prequalified Contractors for Sewer Pump Station Projects -
2025
September 22, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate memorandums of
understanding with four new contractors and to continue under contract with
nine previously prequalified contractors as part of the City’s existing
prequalification program for sewer pump station work, to the satisfaction of
the City’s General Manager of Engineering, the City’s Director of Legal
Services and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer, with an estimated total
program value of $50,000,000, plus applicable taxes over years 4-7 of the
program to be funded through capital project budgets as and when the work
is required.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 3
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and
General Manager of Engineering be authorized to execute, on behalf of
the City, the contracts contemplated by A above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11072)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
3. Reducing Average Sewer Upgrade Costs for Developers
October 6, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council adopt the Sewer Capacity Development Review Policy attached as
Appendix A (the “Policy”) of the Report dated October 6, 2025, entitled “Reducing
Average Sewer Upgrade Costs for Developers”, and accompanying Guidelines
attached as Appendix B (the “Guidelines”) of the above-noted report, which
outline the process and criteria to decide which rezoning or development permit
applications will be subject to review and potential sewer upgrade requirements,
and further authorize the City Engineer / General Manager of Engineering
Services (“GMES”) to amend the Guidelines from time to time at the discretion of
the GMES.
B. THAT Council endorse and authorize the General Manager of Engineering
Services (GMES) to remove or amend sewer and drainage servicing conditions
for those developments outlined in Appendix C – Table C-1, of the Report dated
October 6, 2025, entitled “Reducing Average Sewer Upgrade Costs for
Developers” and further authorize the continued removal or amendment of sewer
and drainage servicing conditions for other developments that meet the
requirements as outlined in the above-noted report, all in compliance with the
Policy and Guidelines.
C. THAT Council authorize staff to reduce the neighbourhood serving sewer
servicing costs for the developments at 8378 and 8444 Oak Street to be equal to
the average sewer servicing costs per square footage of development for the
other developments providing direct contributions to the Oak Street Sewer
Upgrade project, with the $5.6 million offset provided from the previously
approved multi-year capital project budget for the Oak Street Sewer Upgrade
project funded by utility development cost levies.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11073)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
4. Olympic Village Restaurant (Tap & Barrel) Lease Extension
September 29, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 4
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an extension to the lease
agreement (the “Agreement”) for Olympic Village Restaurant (Tap & Barrel) with
Tap & Barrel Group Ltd. for an initial extension term of five (5) years, with the
option to further extend for three (3) additional five-year (5-year) terms, for a
maximum total extension term of twenty (20) years. The City will not provide any
financial contribution to the operator during the contract.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement in A above to the
City's Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General
Manager of the Vancouver Park Board.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11074)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
5. Proposed Changes to the Terms of Reference of the Accessibility Committee
September 24, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the proposed amendments to the Terms of Reference of the
Accessibility Committee as outlined in Appendix B of the Report dated September 24,
2025, entitled “Proposed Changes to the Terms of Reference of the Accessibility
Committee”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11075)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
6. Report Back - Maintaining Fairness & Effectiveness of the Empty Homes Tax (EHT)
September 23, 2025
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve, in principle, the following amendments to the Vacancy Tax By-
law No. 11674:
• an amendment to section 6.4 to allow owners to file a Notice of Complaint after
one year from the date of issue noted on a supplementary vacancy tax notice
upon payment of a 5% penalty, calculated as a percentage of the vacancy tax
levy, which penalty may be waived in specific circumstances for hardship;
• an amendment to section 3.2 to clarify what is meant by the term “permit”;
• an amendment to add a definition of “medical practitioner” for the purposes of
section 3.11; and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 5
• a housekeeping amendment in section 3.2.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the Vacancy Tax By-law generally in accordance with the by-
law attached as Appendix A of the Report dated September 23, 2025, entitled “Report
Back – Maintaining Fairness & Effectiveness of the Empty Homes Tax (EHT)”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11066)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
7. Contract Award for Construction Services for Cambie Bridge Seismic Upgrade -
Phase 2
October 1, 2025
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council authorize City staff to enter into a contract with Pomerleau Inc. for an
estimated total contract value of $36,554,751.25 plus applicable taxes over the
approximate two (2) year contract term (the “Agreement”), which will be funded from the
Multi-Year Capital Project Budget for the Cambie Bridge Seismic Upgrade, and from
Emerging Climate Adaptation Priorities capital funding (2023-2026 Capital Plan) for
Cooper’s Tidal Terrace Pilot Project;
FURTHER THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of
Engineering Services;
AND FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s approval
of the above, unless and until, the City executes and delivers the Agreement.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11078)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Safe Streets for Trick or Treats: Creating Safe Pedestrian Areas to Make Halloween
a Little Less Scary
The Committee heard from two speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 6
1. Halloween is the one night of the year when kids get to take over their
neighbourhoods for a few hours of fun;
2. Halloween is also the day of the year with the highest number of child pedestrian
traffic deaths and injuries. This is particularly the case for younger children aged
four to eight, who are ten times more likely to be killed by a motorist on that one
evening than any other day of the year. The most dangerous hours are between
5:00 pm and 9:00 pm (Staples et al., 2019; see also Clarkson, 2022);
3. In keeping with Council’s strategic priority of ensuring Vancouver remains a
“dynamic and vibrant city” (City of Vancouver, 2023), young people and parents
should be able to enjoy trick-or-treating around their neighbourhoods without fear
of traffic danger, and without feeling obligated to adorn creative costumes with
high-visibility embellishments;
4. The City of Vancouver has an existing and well-developed policy framework that
could be readily adapted to help facilitate safer trick-or-treating conditions in our
neighbourhoods: the block party permit (City of Vancouver, n.d.);
5. Other cities, such as New York City (New York City Department of
Transportation, 2025) and Seattle (Bancroft, 2025), have successfully
implemented “Trick-Or-Streets” programs with simple and accessible application
processes;
6. Residents on streets in higher-density areas who wish to organise a block party
face additional barriers to doing so, because the City currently requires them to
demonstrate the support of 65% of households on their block - a much more
onerous task on streets with apartment buildings.;
7. The City could also help reduce motor vehicle traffic on Halloween via a
communications campaign that would urge motorists to avoid non-essential
vehicle travel on the evening of Halloween each year; and
8. Vancouver has adopted a Healthy City Strategy with a goal that Vancouver’s
children have the best chance of enjoying a healthy childhood and has
committed to Vision Zero, recognising that the only acceptable number of people
seriously injured or killed on our streets is zero.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back on how to create a simple, free, and
inclusive Halloween permit, based on the existing block party permit process,
that would empower residents to temporarily pedestrianize parts of their
neighbourhoods each Halloween, and have the option in place for 2026.
B. THAT Council direct staff to review the current block party permit process, and
identify opportunities to streamline applications, including lowering the minimum
support threshold in denser multi-family neighbourhoods, and explore and report
back on the feasibility of providing free street barricade rentals for block parties

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 7
(including Halloween permits) with delivery and pick-up and free basic event
insurance.
C. THAT Council direct staff to use city communications channels to explicitly
request that motorists refrain from non-essential driving on Halloween night and
promote Safe Streets for Trick or Treats each year, starting in October 2026.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT A be struck; and
FURTHER THAT the following B and C Clauses of the motion entitled “Safe Streets for
Trick or Treats: Creating Safe Pedestrian Areas to Make Halloween a Little Less Scary”,
be referred to staff for information, within the context of their ongoing work to review and
evaluate event safety relating to block parties in the City of Vancouver following the April
26, 2025, tragedy:
THAT Council direct staff to review the current block party permit process, and
identify opportunities to streamline applications, including lowering the minimum
support threshold in denser multi-family neighbourhoods, and explore and report
back on the feasibility of providing free street barricade rentals for block parties
(including Halloween permits) with delivery and pick-up and free basic event
insurance.
THAT Council direct staff to use city communications channels to explicitly
request that motorists refrain from non-essential driving on Halloween night and
promote Safe Streets for Trick or Treats each year, starting in October 2026.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11067)
(Councillors Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT the following Clauses of the motion entitled “Safe Streets for Trick or Treats:
Creating Safe Pedestrian Areas to Make Halloween a Little Less Scary”, be referred to
staff for information, within the context of their ongoing work to review and evaluate
event safety relating to block parties in the City of Vancouver following the April 26,
2025, tragedy:
THAT Council direct staff to review the current block party permit process, and
identify opportunities to streamline applications, including lowering the minimum
support threshold in denser multi-family neighbourhoods, and explore and report
back on the feasibility of providing free street barricade rentals for block parties
(including Halloween permits) with delivery and pick-up and free basic event
insurance.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 8
THAT Council direct staff to use city communications channels to explicitly
request that motorists refrain from non-essential driving on Halloween night and
promote Safe Streets for Trick or Treats each year, starting in October 2026.
2. Support for BC Parks Foundation’s Learning by Nature Initiative
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver has established commitments to sustainability and
resilience through policies such as the Vancouver Plan 2050, the Climate
Change Adaptation Strategy, the Urban Forest Strategy, and the Rain City
Strategy;
2. The BC Parks Foundation has launched Learning by Nature, a province-wide
initiative designed to expand tree canopy cover on school grounds, with the
support of the federal and provincial governments and six founding school
districts;
3. The Learning by Nature initiative aims to create Nature Parks (trees and shrubs)
on school grounds across British Columbia to improve youth mental health,
increase biodiversity, and foster reconciliation through land-based learning
opportunities;
4. The Vancouver School Board has been selected to participate in the initial
tranche of schools for the Learning by Nature initiative;
5. Collaboration with municipalities is essential to ensure the sustainability,
expertise, and long-term success of this project; and
6. The Federation of Canadian Municipalities’ (FCM) Growing Canada’s Community
Canopies initiative provides funding to support tree planting projects in
partnership with municipalities, with a lifetime contribution limit of $10 million per
municipality, inclusive of up to $1 million for eligible infrastructure costs.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council acknowledge and support the BC Parks
Foundation’s application to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities’ (FCM)
Growing Canada’s Community Canopies initiative for the Learning by Nature
project, in partnership with the City of Vancouver.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 9
B. THAT Council recognize that any funding awarded through The Federation of
Canadian Municipalities’ (FCM’s) Growing Canada’s Community Canopies
initiative for this project will count towards the City of Vancouver’s lifetime
maximum contribution of $10 million, inclusive of a maximum contribution of $1
million to support BC Parks.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11068)
3. Youth Voices: Amend the Charter for Age Sixteen Starter
The Committee heard from 16 speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The right to vote is a cornerstone of democracy;
2. Youth aged 16 and 17 are increasingly engaged in civic issues, demonstrating
informed perspectives and active participation in community and political life.
Many political decisions—education, employment, housing, climate change,
transportation and public transit—directly affect youth;
3. At 16, individuals can work, pay taxes, drive, and in some cases, be tried as
adults. Voting aligns with these responsibilities;
4. Research indicates that voting at a younger age fosters lifelong civic engagement
and strengthens democratic participation;
5. Across the world, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Cuba, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland,
Germany, Hungary, Malta, Scotland, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
States, all variously allow a voter age of 16 for at least one level of government,
primarily for municipal and school board elections;
6. In this province, The BC Teachers’ Federation, BCGEU, BCNDP, BC Greens,
and other civic organizations have all expressed support for lowering the voting
age to 16;
7. In 2019, the Union of BC Municipalities endorsed the City of Victoria’s resolution:
Youth Voting in Local Government Elections1, expressing support for lowering
the voting age in municipal elections across British Columbia. In 2021, led by
then-Councillor Christine Boyle, the City of Vancouver unanimously endorsed the
1 https://www.ubcm.ca/convention-resolutions/resolutions/resolutions-database/youth-voting-local-
government-elections

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 10
Vote16BC campaign joining Victoria, Burnaby, Penticton, Vernon, Saanich, and
other municipalities2 calling for lowering the voting age to 16;
8. The Vancouver Charter, which governs the City of Vancouver uniquely compared
to other municipalities in BC, outlines voting eligibility in Part I — Electors and
Elections, specifically in Division (4) — Electors.3
Section 22 of the Charter states: “A person is entitled to vote at an election if the
person is qualified as an elector under this Part.” Section 23 defines resident
electors, and Section 26 specifies that a person may register as an elector if
they:
• Are 18 years of age or older on general voting day.
• Are a Canadian citizen.
• Have resided in BC for at least six months.
• Have resided in Vancouver for at least 30 days.
• Are not disqualified by law.
9. The City Clerk is the official responsible for maintaining the register of electors.
The register of electors must separately record resident electors and The
Vancouver Charter allows the City of Vancouver to, by by-law opt into using the
Provincial register of electors, which by default does not include British
Columbians under the age of 18. The law ensures that electors can vote even if
they are not on the register, including if they are non-resident property electors,
of no fixed address, and/or swear an oath; and
10. The Province of British Columbia holds the legislative authority to amend the
Vancouver Charter to enable the City of Vancouver to lower the voting age.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT The City of Vancouver reaffirms its support for lowering the voting age to
16 in municipal elections in BC and specifically in the City of Vancouver.
B. THAT Council requests that the Mayor write a formal letter to the Premier of
British Columbia and the Minister of Municipal Affairs urging the Province to
amend the Vancouver Charter to set the voting age at 16.
C. THAT Council directs staff to report back on opportunities for youth engagement
in civic processes both as part of planned reporting for the 2026 General
Elections and in general, including any necessary by-law changes to enter
Vancouverites under the age of 18 into the register of electors.
LOST (Vote No. 11069)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, and Zhou opposed)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
2 https://council.vancouver.ca/20210608/documents/b3.pdf
3 https://www.bclaws.gov.bc.ca/civix/document/id/complete/statreg/vanch_02#division_d2e2325

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 11
4. No More Developer Handouts: Requiring the Full Replacement of Waived SRA
Conversion Fees
The Committee heard from four speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver protects low-income housing through the Single Room
Accommodation (SRA) By-law, which allows for a permit condition requiring
payment of an SRA conversion charge to offset the loss of deeply affordable
homes;
2. SRA conversion charges are a critical revenue source for replacing deeply
affordable housing stock, but the charge is frequently not imposed based on
opaque, unclear, and arbitrary decisions of Council;
3. Replacement of redeveloped SRA units is essential to avoid a net loss of deeply
affordable housing in Vancouver. When an SRA-designated unit is lost, a deeply
affordable unit is gone forever;
4. SRA conversion charges that are waived without replacement revenue being
identified result in less deeply affordable housing, rising homelessness, and
benefit private developers profits over the public interest;
5. Transparent and predictable rules for when and how SRA conversion charges
are not imposed will strengthen the financial integrity and ensure public trust;
6. Property values on SRA properties will increase if investors do not believe that
the conversion charges are enforced, making it harder for governments and non-
profits to develop deeply affordable housing;
7. City Council should be making decisions that demonstrate financial competence,
with an understanding that the failure to impose the charge is not “free”, and
represents lost revenue for badly needed housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back with possible
amendments to the Single Room Accommodation (SRA) By-law to set clear and
predictable conditions on SRA conversion charges, including consideration of the
following:
THAT City Council shall not waive the SRA conversion fee unless:
i. The City of Vancouver replaces those funds, through an explicit Council-
Approved allocation of funds; or

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 12
ii. An external contributor (including public sector, non-profit, or private
donation) provides funds equal to the charges not imposed.
iii. The applicant is replacing the SRA designated units with an equal or
greater amount of deeply affordable shelter rate and social housing.
iv. Receipt of SRA conversion charges or an allocation of full replacement
funding shall be a condition for any rezoning development approvals
related to SRA conversion.
LOST (Vote No. 11070)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, and Zhou opposed)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 11:54 am.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OCTOBER 29, 2025
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, October 29, 2025, at
11:54 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Acting Mayor Brian Montague
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Mayor Ken Sim (Leave of Absence – Personal Reasons)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Lisa Dominato (Leave of Absence –Civic Business)
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, October 29, 2025
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. 2025 Q3 Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
2. Contract Award for Prequalified Contractors for Sewer Pump Station Projects - 2025
3. Reducing Average Sewer Upgrade Costs for Developers
4. Olympic Village Restaurant (Tap & Barrel) Lease Extension
5. Proposed Changes to the Terms of Reference of the Accessibility Committee
6. Report Back - Maintaining Fairness & Effectiveness of the Empty Homes Tax (EHT)
7. Contract Award for Construction Services for Cambie Bridge Seismic Upgrade - Phase 2

Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, October 29, 2025 2
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Safe Streets for Trick or Treats: Creating Safe Pedestrian Areas to Make Halloween a
Little Less Scary
2. Support for BC Parks Foundation’s Learning by Nature Initiative
3. Youth Voices: Amend the Charter for Age Sixteen Starter
4. No More Developer Handouts: Requiring the Full Replacement of Waived SRA
Conversion Fees
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of October 29, 2025, as contained in Reports 1 to 7 and
Council Members’ Motions 1 to 4, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 11:55 am.
* * * * *