PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
APRIL 13, 2023
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday, April 13, 2023, at 6:00 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Public Hearing was convened by electronic
means as authorized under Section 566 of the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Brian Montague (Leave of Absence – Personal
Reasons)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and Development By-law and Various Other
By laws and Land Use Documents
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make miscellaneous amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
and various other by-laws and land use documents to correct errors, section
and by-law references, and omissions, clarify regulations, update use terms,
and to align with formatting and writing standards.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, April 13, 2023 2
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the
speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Chair called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:13 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the application to amend the Zoning and
Development By-law to correct errors, section and by-law references, clarify the
measurement of building height and building depth in specific district schedules,
update use terms, and update wording to align with writing standards, generally
as presented in Appendix A of the Report dated February 13, 2023, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and Development By-law and Various
Other By laws and Land Use Documents.”
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Zoning and Development By-law generally in
accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted report.
B. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Downtown
Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan to update use terms, generally
as presented in Appendix B of the Report dated February 13, 2023, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and Development By-law and Various
Other By laws and Land Use Documents.”
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Downtown Eastside/Oppenheimer Official
Development Plan generally in accordance with Appendix B of the above-noted
report.
C. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sewer and Watercourse By-
law to add a new definition for infill single detached house, and update use terms
and related definitions, generally as presented in Appendix C of the Report dated
February 13, 2023, entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and
Development By-law and Various Other By laws and Land Use Documents.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, April 13, 2023 3
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Sewer and Watercourse By-law generally in
accordance with Appendix C of the above-noted report.
D. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Water Works By-law to
update the definition for laneway house and update use terms, generally as
presented in Appendix D of the Report dated February 13, 2023, entitled
“Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and Development By-law and Various
Other By laws and Land Use Documents.”
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Water Works By-law generally in accordance
with Appendix D of the above-noted report.
E. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sign By-law to assign CD-
1(684) to the correct schedule, generally as presented in Appendix E of the
Report, dated February 13, 2023, entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning
and Development By-law and Various Other By laws and Land Use Documents.”
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Sign By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix E of the above-noted report.
F. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sign Fee By-law to correct a
spelling error, generally as presented in Appendix F of the Report, dated
February 13, 2023, entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning and
Development By-law and Various Other By laws and Land Use Documents.”
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Sign By-law and Sign Fee By-law, generally in
accordance with Appendix F of the above-noted report.
G. THAT at the time of enactment of the amendments to the above by-laws, the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to
bring forward for approval amendments to various land use documents to update
terms and section references, generally as presented in Appendix G of the
Report, dated February 13, 2023, entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments – Zoning
and Development By-law and Various Other By laws and Land Use Documents.”
H. THAT recommendations A to G be adopted on the following conditions:
(a) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(b) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, April 13, 2023 4
(c) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09180)
2. Minor Regulatory and Policy Amendments – Zoning and Development By-law,
Downtown Eastside Plan, RM-8 and RM-8N Guidelines, and RM-8A and RM-8AN
Guidelines
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make minor policy amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
and related land use documents to update definitions, provide more flexibility
for social housing development sites and for roof-top amenity spaces, remove
outdated regulations and consolidate regulations.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the
speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Chair called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:22 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the application to amend the Zoning and
Development By-law, generally as presented in Appendix A of the of the Report
dated February 13, 2023, entitled “Minor Regulatory and Policy Amendments –
Zoning and Development By-law, Downtown Eastside Plan, RM-8 and RM-8N
Guidelines, and RM-8A and RM-8AN Guidelines” to:
(a) update the definition for impermeable materials in Section 2;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, April 13, 2023 5
(b) add a new definition for mezzanine in Section 2 and add regulations to
Section 10 clarifying the situations in which a mezzanine is not
considered an extra storey;
(c) remove wording requiring paper copies of plans and drawings in section
4.1.3;
(d) update regulations in Section 10 to:
(i) exclude roof-top access structures, roof-top amenity structures,
zero-emission mechanical equipment and required guards from
the 10% of roof area restriction for over-height items in section
10.1, and
(ii) add a floor area exclusion for roof-top access structures;
(e) change Cannabis Store from an outright use to a conditional use in the
FC-1 District, to align the intended approval process for the use and with
how the use is regulated in other districts;
(f) remove the vertical angle of daylight requirements from the M-1 and M-2
District Schedules;
(g) for social housing developments in the RM-4 and RM-4N Districts
Schedule, add a variance for the site frontage requirements;
(h) consolidate the regulations on the maximum number of storeys permitted
for townhouse developments in the RM-7, RM-7N, and RM-7AN Districts
Schedule;
(i) amend the RM-8, RM-8N, RM-8A and RM-8AN Districts Schedule to:
(i) revise the rear building height, front yard, rear yard, and building
width regulations for townhouse developments to remove the
need for Director of Planning discretion, and
(ii) clarify side yard and building depth requirements for townhouse
developments on corner sites;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment an amendment to the Zoning and Development By-law generally in
accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted Report.
B. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law described in Recommendation A(g), the General Manager
of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for
approval by Council amendments to the RM-3A, RM-4, and RM-4N Guidelines
for Social Housing, generally as presented in Appendix B of the Report dated
February 13, 2023, entitled “Minor Regulatory and Policy Amendments – Zoning

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, April 13, 2023 6
and Development By-law, Downtown Eastside Plan, RM-8 and RM-8N
Guidelines, and RM-8A and RM-8AN Guidelines.”
C. THAT, subject to the enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law described in Recommendation A(i), the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for
approval by Council repeal of the existing RM-8 and RM-8N Guidelines and the
RM-8A and RM-8AN Guidelines that these be replaced with new combined RM-
8, RM-8N, RM-8A and RM-8AN Guidelines, generally as presented in Appendix
C of the Report dated February 13, 2023, entitled “Minor Regulatory and Policy
Amendments – Zoning and Development By-law, Downtown Eastside Plan, RM-
8 and RM-8N Guidelines, and RM-8A and RM-8AN Guidelines.”
D. THAT at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for approval amendments to the
Downtown Eastside Plan to reflect previous updates made to the Downtown-
Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan By-law and FC-1 District
Schedule to increase the floor space ratio and height for social housing
developments, generally as presented in Appendix D of the Report dated
February 13, 2023, entitled “Minor Regulatory and Policy Amendments – Zoning
and Development By-law, Downtown Eastside Plan, RM-8 and RM-8N
Guidelines, and RM-8A and RM-8AN Guidelines.”
E. THAT recommendations A to D be adopted on the following conditions:
(a) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(b) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(c) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09181)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Thursday, April 13, 2023 7
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 6:24 pm.
* * * * *