REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MARCH 8, 2023
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, March 8, 2023, at 9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Christine Boyle*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato* (Leave Of Absence for Civic
Business 9:30 am to 12 pm)
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou, Vice-Chair
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Chair (Leave Of Absence for Civic
Business 9:30 am to 10 pm)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Vice-Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish,
and Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Vice-Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who
work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
PROCLAMATION – 112th Anniversary of International Women’s Day
The Mayor read the Proclamation and proclaimed, on behalf of Vancouver City Council,
Wednesday March 8, 2023, as the 112th anniversary of International Women’s Day.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 08, 2023 2
* * * * *
Prior to voting on matters adopted on consent, Councillor Montague declared a conflict of
interest on item 4 as he has a conflict with one of the short listed companies.
* * * * *
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Items 2 and 3, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
1. 901 Granville Street – Cinema Public House Ltd (“Cinema Restaurant”) Dual
Licence – Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class 2
February 7, 2023
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council, having considered the opinion of area residents and business
operators as determined by neighbourhood notification, site sign, noise impacts
and relevant Council policy as outlined in the Report dated February 7, 2023,
entitled “901 Granville Street – Cinema Public House Ltd (“Cinema Restaurant”)
Dual Licence – Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class
2”, endorse the application submitted by Christa Montpetit of Blue Diamond
Hospitality Inc., on behalf of the applicant, Cinema Public House Ltd., for a new
Dual Licence – Liquor Primary liquor licence (Liquor Establishment – Class 2)
located at 901 Granville Street, subject to:
i. A maximum interior capacity of 92 persons and outdoor patio capacity of
14 persons;
ii. Extended Hours of operation limited to 10 pm to 3 am, seven days a
week;
iii. The outdoor patio ceasing all liquor service and vacated by 11 pm nightly;
iv. No music or entertainment permitted on the patio;
v. An acoustic report certifying that the establishment meets Noise Control
By-law requirements;
vi. A Time-Limited Development Permit; and
vii. Signing a Good Neighbour Agreement with the City prior to business
licence issuance.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 08, 2023 3
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09092)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
2. 1193 Granville Street – Cold Tea Restaurant Ltd (“Cold Tea Restaurant”) Dual
Licence – Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class 2
February 7, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council, having considered the opinion of area residents and business
operators as determined by neighbourhood notification, site sign, noise impacts
and relevant Council policy as outlined in the Report dated February 7, 2023,
entitled “1193 Granville Street – Cold Tea Restaurant Ltd (“Cold Tea Restaurant”)
Dual Licence – Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class
2”, endorse the application submitted by Christa Montpetit of Blue Diamond
Hospitality Inc., on behalf of the applicant, Cold Tea Restaurant Ltd., for a new
Dual Licence – Liquor Primary liquor licence (Liquor Establishment – Class 2)
located at 1193 Granville Street, subject to:
i. A maximum interior capacity of 150 persons and outdoor patio capacity of
50 persons;
ii. Extended Hours of operation limited to 10 pm to 2 am, Sunday to
Thursday, and 10 pm to 3 am, Friday to Saturday;
iii. The outdoor patio ceasing all liquor service and vacated by 11 pm nightly;
iv. No music or entertainment permitted on the patio;
v. A Time-Limited Development Permit;
vi. An acoustic report certifying that the establishment meets Noise Control
By-law requirements; and
vii. Signing a Good Neighbour Agreement with the City prior to business
licence issuance.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09095)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
3. 1202 Davie Street – Hamburger Mary’s Davie Ltd (“Mary’s on Davie”) Dual Licence
– Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class 2
February 7, 2023
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council, having considered the opinion of area residents and business
operators as determined by neighbourhood notification, site sign, noise impacts
and relevant Council policy as outlined in the Report dated February 7, 2023,
entitled “1202 Davie Street – Hamburger Mary’s Davie Ltd (“Mary’s on Davie”)
Dual Licence – Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class
2”, endorse the application submitted by Brent Christensen, on behalf of the

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 08, 2023 4
applicant, Hamburger Mary’s Davie Ltd., for a new Dual Licence – Liquor Primary
Liquor Licence (Liquor Establishment – Class 2) located at 1202 Davie Street,
subject to:
i. A maximum interior capacity of 68 persons and outdoor patio capacity of
40 persons;
ii. Standard Hours of operation limited to 10 pm to 2 am, seven days a
week, for a minimum of three months;
iii. No music or entertainment permitted on the patio;
iv. A Time-Limited Development Permit;
v. An acoustic report certifying that the establishment meets Noise Control
By-law requirements; and
vi. Signing a Good Neighbour Agreement with the City prior to business
licence issuance.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09096)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
4. Contract Award for Prequalified Contractors for Landfill Gasworks Program
February 8, 2023
As previously stated during matters adopted on consent, Councillor Montague declared a
conflict of interest on item 4. He left the meeting at 10:01 am and did not return until the
completion of item 4 at 10:15 am.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to (1) establish a three-year program through
which the City will select prequalified contractors to provide gasworks and
ancillary services and (2) under the gasworks and ancillary services program,
authorize City staff to negotiate agreements worth an estimated total of
$13,000,000, plus applicable taxes, funded through capital project budgets to the
satisfaction of the City’s General Manager of the Engineering Services
Department, the City’s Director of Legal Services, and the City’s Chief
Procurement Officer as and when the work is required;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and
General Manager of the Engineering Services Department be authorized to
execute on behalf of the City the agreements described in A.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in these Recommendations.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09093)
(Councillor Carr abstained from the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 08, 2023 5
(Councillor Montague absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
5. 2023 Property Taxation: Development Potential Relief and Targeted Land
Assessment Averaging
February 24, 2023
Staff from Finance, Risk, and Supply Chain Management provided a presentation and
responded to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT under section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, Council ask a second round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
Prior to debate, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the meeting extend past noon in order to complete item 5 and convene in Council
to deal with the recommendations from the Standing Committee on City Finance and
Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
Development Potential Relief
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the implementation of a pilot development
potential relief program (the “DPRP”) for eligible Light Industry (Class 5) and
Business and Other (Class 6) properties as authorized by s. 374.6 of the
Vancouver Charter;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 08, 2023 6
FURTHER THAT, in addition to the provincial eligibility criteria and exclusions
pursuant to s. 374.6 of the Vancouver Charter, Council approve the additional
City exclusions generally as outlined in the Report dated February 24, 2023,
entitled “2023 Property Taxation: Development Potential Relief and Targeted
Land Assessment Averaging”;
AND FURTHER THAT, for each category of eligible properties, Council approve
the percentage of assessed land value to be taxed at a general purpose tax rate
that is 50% lower than the blended rate for Classes 5 and 6 (to be finalized
based on the 2023 Revised Assessment Roll) generally as outlined in Appendix
G of the above-noted Report.
B. THAT, subject to A above, Council require the owner(s) of each eligible property to
provide a written declaration to the City by March 31, 2023 that:
• the property was occupied as of October 31, 2022 as required by s.
374.6(5) of the Vancouver Charter;
• the property does not fall into one or more of the City exclusions; and
• notice of the tax relief has been provided to the occupiers of the property;
FURTHER THAT properties whose owners fail to provide such written
declarations to the City by March 31, 2023 will not receive relief under the DPRP.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
be instructed to bring forward for enactment a by-law in accordance with
Council’s decision on A and B above.
D. THAT the Director of Finance be instructed to engage key stakeholders, including
but not limited to the Business Improvement Associations in Vancouver, Greater
Vancouver Board of Trade, Canadian Federation of Independent Business, and
community partners from the arts, culture and non-profit sector, to assess the
efficacy of the pilot DPRP as outlined in the Report dated February 24, 2023,
entitled “2023 Property Taxation: Development Potential Relief and Targeted
Land Assessment Averaging” in order to explore enhancement opportunities for
future years.
E. THAT the Director of Finance be instructed to engage the Province and BC
Assessment to explore viable options to address the implementation challenges for
the DPRP, including but not limited to assessment data limitations, as outlined in
the Report dated February 24, 2023, entitled “2023 Property Taxation:
Development Potential Relief and Targeted Land Assessment Averaging”.
Targeted Land Assessment Averaging
F. THAT Council approve, in principle, the application of targeted 5-year land
assessment averaging for the purpose of calculating property taxes for
Residential (Class 1), Light Industry (Class 5), and Business and Other (Class 6)
properties for 2023;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, March 08, 2023 7
FURTHER THAT, in addition to the standard exclusions as outlined in the annual
Land Assessment Averaging By-law, Council adopt a “threshold” of 10% above
the property class average change for Class 1 and for Classes 5 and 6 (to be
finalized based on the 2023 Revised Assessment Roll) to define eligibility for
targeted averaging;
AND FURTHER THAT, for properties that are eligible for targeted averaging, the
year-over-year change in values derived from the averaging formula not fall
below the Council-adopted “threshold”.
G. THAT properties impacted by a Director of Planning-initiated amendment to the
Zoning and Development By-law or an Official Development Plan be considered
for targeted averaging, in accordance with the criteria set out in the annual Land
Assessment Averaging By-law;
FURTHER THAT properties whose owners sought additional density or a change
in use from Council through rezoning, whether enacted or not, or through
Council-approved policy changes, not be eligible for targeted averaging;
AND FURTHER THAT, subject to A and B above, properties that receive relief
under the pilot DPRP not be eligible for targeted averaging in accordance with s.
374.6(6) of the Vancouver Charter.
H. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
be instructed to bring forward for enactment a by-law authorizing the use of
targeted 5-year land assessment averaging in accordance with Council’s
decision on F and G above.
I. THAT, subject to adoption of the applicable by-laws in C and H above, the Director
of Finance be instructed to make appropriate arrangements with BC Assessment for
the production of the 2023 Average Assessment Roll at an estimated cost of
$24,950 plus applicable taxes; source of funding to be the 2023 Operating Budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09094)
The Committee adjourned at 12:00 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MARCH 8, 2023
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, March 8, 2023, at
12:01 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave Of Absence for Civic
Business 9:30 am to 10 pm)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, March 8, 2023
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. 901 Granville Street – Cinema Public House Ltd (“Cinema Restaurant”) Dual Licence –
Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class 2
2. 1193 Granville Street – Cold Tea Restaurant Ltd (“Cold Tea Restaurant”) Dual Licence –
Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class 2
3. 1202 Davie Street – Hamburger Mary’s Davie Ltd (“Mary’s on Davie”) Dual Licence –
Liquor Primary Licence Application Liquor Establishment – Class 2
4. Contract Award for Prequalified Contractors for Landfill Gasworks Program

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, March 8, 2023 2
5. 2023 Property Taxation: Development Potential Relief and Targeted Land Assessment
Averaging
Items 1 to 5
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of March 8, 2023, as contained in items 1 to 5, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 12:02 pm.
* * * * *