COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 14, 2023
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, February 14, 2023, at
9:32 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized in Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Kirsty Colquhoun, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team
members who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and
play.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - 32nd Annual Women’s Memorial March
The Mayor acknowledged that today marks the 32nd Annual Women’s Memorial March. City
Hall will fly a combination of Indigenous flags at 12th and Cambie, including the Missing and
Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls Flag, for the week of February 13th to 17th to honour
this occasion.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
Section 165.2(1)
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed
by the city;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public;
Section 165.2(2)
(b) the consideration of information received and held in confidence relating to
negotiations between the city and a provincial government or the federal
government or both, or between a provincial government or the federal
government or both and a third party.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – January 31, 2023
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of January 31, 2023, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 3
2. Council (City Finance and Services) – February 1, 2023
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the Minutes of the Council (City Finance and Services) of February 1, 2023, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Auditor General Committee – February 2, 2023
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Auditor General Committee of February 2, 2023, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Court of Revision – February 2, 2023
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Minutes of the Court of Revision of February 2, 2023, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Communication 1, Reports 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8, and Referral Reports
1 through 6 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
COMMUNICATIONS
1. Changes to 2023 Council Meeting Schedule
THAT Council cancel the Business License Hearing on April 5, 2023;
FURTHER THAT Council add a Council Reserve on April 5, 2023, from 6 to 10 pm.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09007)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 4
VARY AGENDA
Prior to the hearing the presentation, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT Council vary the agenda to deal with Report 1 entitled “Grant to VCH for
Expanded Mental Health Response”, before the Presentation entitled “City of Vancouver
Permitting and Licensing Update”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Note: For ease of reference, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
REPORTS
1. Grant to VCH for Expanded Mental Health Response
January 31, 2023
The General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services along with the Managing Director,
Social Policy and Projects and staff from Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) and the Vancouver
Police Department (VPD) provided a presentation and responded to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT under Section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, Council ask a second round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
Council heard from one speaker who spoke to other aspects of the recommendations.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT Council approve a grant of up to $2,800,000 to Vancouver Coastal Health
Authority (“VCH”) to be disbursed in accordance with the terms and conditions of
a grant agreement to the satisfaction of the City to implement Phase One of the

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 5
VCH’s Urgent Mental Health and Substance Use Service Enhancements
Framework as described in this report. Source of funding is to be considered and
confirmed by Council as part of the 2023 Operating Budget.
B. THAT the grant be made pursuant to Section 206(1)(a) of the Vancouver Charter
since VCH is a charity registered with the Canada Revenue Agency.
C. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate an agreement to disperse the grant described in A above
on the terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal Services each of
whom are authorized to execute such agreement.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A through C above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09006)
PRESENTATION
1. City of Vancouver Permitting and Licensing Update
The General Manager, Development Buildings and Licensing along with the General Manager,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation on the above-noted matter
and responded to questions.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council extend the meeting past noon in order to complete Presentation 1.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
At this point in the meeting, the Mayor relinquished the chair to Acting Mayor Carr.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12:01 pm and reconvened at 3:11 pm, with Mayor Sim in the Chair.
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 6
During the questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT under Section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, Council ask a second round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
REPORTS
2. 2023 Street Cleaning Grants
January 17, 2023
A. THAT Council approve the 2023 Street Cleaning Grant Program totalling
$2,259,150 to the following recipients for programs that support improvements to
street cleanliness, as detailed in the Report, dated January 17, 2023, entitled
“2023 Street Cleaning Grants”, contingent on funding from the 2023 Street
Cleaning and 2023 Plaza Stewardship operating budgets:
• United We Can – Save Our Living Environment ($469,100);
• Coast Mental Health Foundation – Employment Services Program
($663,000);
• Mission Possible Compassionate Ministries Society – MP Maintenance
($950,150);
• Family Services of Greater Vancouver – Street Youth Job Action
($73,100);
• The Kettle Society – SEED Employment Program ($48,800); and
• MakeWay Charitable Society - The Binners’ Project ($55,000).
B. THAT if funding is allocated to items A1 and A2 under Appendix A of the Report,
dated January 17, 2023, entitled, “Uplifting Chinatown Action Plan”, (RTS 15432)
through the 2023 budget process, that Council approve additional Street
Cleaning grants to the following recipients from the approved funding:
• Coast Mental Health Foundation – Employment Services Program
($72,000);
• Mission Possible Compassionate Ministries Society – MP Maintenance
($128,000).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 09008)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 7
3. Appointment of Childcare Operators, Lease Approvals, Childcare Grant
Approvals, and Approval of Funding for Maintenance of Licensed Childcare
Centres at West Fraser Lands, Henry Hudson Elementary School, and Marpole
Community Centre
January 17, 2023
A. THAT Council appoint the following non-profit organizations to be the operators
for new licensed group childcare centres:
• Association of Neighbourhood Houses of British Columbia (“ANHBC”) to
be the non-profit operator at West Fraser Lands, the new standalone
building for licensed group childcare at 3010 East Kent Avenue South,
legally described as PID 023-668-296, Lot 7, District Lots 330, 2100 and
6320 Group 1 New Westminster District Plan LMP31809;
• ANHBC to be the non-profit operator of the new licensed group childcare
centre that will be co-located with the seismically replaced Henry Hudson
Elementary School at 1530 Maple Street, legally described as PID 007-
681-909, Block 196 District Lot 526 Plan 15249, subject to the City and
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) (“VBE”)
finalizing the long-term lease of the childcare facility;
• Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (“VSOCC”) to be the non-profit
operator of the new licensed group childcare facility to be co-located with
the new Marpole Community Centre, at 7780 Oak St, legally described as
PID 011-683-562, Block 1002 District Lot 526 Plan 4251.
B. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute the following lease agreements for the new licensed childcare centres
with the non-profit operators recommended in A above:
• Lease with ANHBC as the tenant and childcare operator at West Fraser
Lands;
• Sublease with ANHBC as the subtenant and childcare operator at Henry
Hudson Elementary School;
FURTHER THAT Council concur with the Vancouver Board of Parks and
Recreation (“the Park Board”) negotiating and executing a Lease with VSOCC as
the tenant and childcare operator at Marpole Community Centre; provided that if
the Park Board requests and the City agrees, Council authorizes the Director of
Real Estate Services to negotiate and execute such Lease on behalf of the Park
Board;
On the following basic terms, and upon such other terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Director of Real Estate Services, the Director of Legal
Services, the Managing Director of Social Policy and Projects, and, in respect
of the Marpole Community Centre, the Park Board’s General Manager:

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 8
Term and Renewals: Five (5) years with two (2) options to renew, each for a
further five (5) years (fifteen (15) years total possible term).
Each renewal option is conditional upon the City being satisfied that the
operator has the capacity to operate, maintain and program the respective
licensed childcare centres in accordance with the lease terms and the Public
Service Requirements in Appendix E of the Report, dated January 17, 2023,
entitled “Appointment of Childcare Operators, Lease Approvals, Childcare
Grant Approvals, and Approval of Funding for Maintenance of Licensed
Childcare Centres at West Fraser Lands, Henry Hudson Elementary School,
and Marpole Community Centre”, for the duration of the renewal term
contemplated.
Total Rent: Ten dollars ($10.00) for each term or renewal term, inclusive of
payment of rent in lieu of property taxes, payable in advance.
Form of Lease: The lease with ANHBC as the tenant and childcare operator
for West Fraser Lands is to be based on the City’s form of Precedent
Childcare Lease (General) which includes a Service Level Agreement
(Appendix B) pursuant to which the City sets out its level of support for the
maintenance of all major building systems.
The sublease with ANHBC as the subtenant and childcare operator for Henry
Hudson Elementary is to be based on the City’s form of Precedent Childcare
Sublease (VBE Lands) which includes a Service Level Agreement
Appendix C of the above noted report, pursuant to which the City sets out its
level of support for the maintenance of all major building systems.
The lease to VSOCC as the tenant and childcare operator at the new
Marpole Community Centre will be determined by the Park Board since the
lands are within the jurisdiction of the Park Board, having been designated as
permanent public park in accordance with the provisions of the Vancouver
Charter. The Park Board may elect to base the lease on the City’s form of
Precedent Childcare Lease (VSOCC), which includes a Service Level
Agreement Appendix D of the Report, dated January 17, 2023, entitled
“Appointment of Childcare Operators, Lease Approvals, Childcare Grant
Approvals, and Approval of Funding for Maintenance of Licensed Childcare
Centres at West Fraser Lands, Henry Hudson Elementary School, and
Marpole Community Centre”, pursuant to which the Park Board sets out its
level of support for the maintenance of all major building systems.
For all sites, the rent under the leases / sublease will be below the applicable
market rate and will include payment of rent in lieu of property taxes. Therefore,
B constitutes grants valued at the estimated amounts listed below, based on the
first year of the term for each facility:
a. Lease with ANHBC for the childcare facility at West Fraser Lands
constitutes a grant valued at approximately $233,000 per annum;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 9
b. Sublease with ANHBC for the childcare facility at Henry Hudson
Elementary School constitutes a grant valued at approximately $361,000
per annum;
c. Lease with VSOCC for the childcare facility at Marpole Community Centre
constitutes a grant valued at approximately $284,000 per annum.
C. THAT Council approve the following one-time grants for operational start-up
costs for the new licensed childcare facilities, to be disbursed over two years:
• Up to $138,000 to ANHBC for the childcare facility at West Fraser Lands;
• Up to $138,000 to ANHBC for the childcare facility at Henry Hudson
Elementary;
• Up to $148,000 to VSOCC for the childcare facility at Marpole Community
Centre;
Source of funds: Funding for the start-up grants will be included as part of the
annual budget process for childcare start-up grants;
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by
Council’s adoption of B or C above unless and until all legal documentation has
been executed and delivered by the respective parties.
D. THAT Council approve the following annual allocations for maintenance of the
childcare facilities for the duration of the recommended lease terms (5 years with
two 5 year options to renew):
• Up to $51,318 annually for the childcare facility at West Fraser Lands;
• Up to $67,812 annually for the childcare facility at Henry Hudson
Elementary;
• Up to $56,922 annually for the childcare facility at Marpole Community
Centre;
Source of funds: Funding for facility maintenance will be considered as part of
the annual operating budget process;
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by
Council’s adoption of D unless and until all legal documentation has been
executed and delivered by the respective parties.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 10
E. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate and execute agreements to disperse the grants described
in C above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such other terms and
conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts, Culture and
Community Services and Director of Legal Services;
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND B AND C
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 09009)
4. Funding Application to the UBCM Community Emergency Preparedness Fund for
Emergency Support Services
January 18, 2023
THAT Council approve a funding application to the Union of British Columbia
Municipality’s Community Emergency Preparedness Fund – Emergency Support
Services stream for $30,000 towards the purchase of accessible supplies as described
in Appendix A of the Report, dated January 18, 2023, entitled “Funding Application of the
UBCM Community Emergency Preparedness Fund for Emergency Support Services”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09010)
5. Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
January 31, 2023
The Deputy City Manager responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
A. THAT Council approve capital budget and funding adjustments as outlined in the
Report and Appendix D of the Report, dated January 31, 2023, entitled,
“Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts”, which will result in:
a. an increase of $0.32 million to the 2023-2026 Capital Plan; and
b. an increase of $12.2 million to the Multi-Year Capital Project Budgets.
B. THAT, as part of the Capital Budget closeout process, Council approve the
closeout of one capital project that was completed with deficit exceeding
$0.2 million, as outlined in the Report, dated January 31, 2023, entitled,
“Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09024)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 11
6. Alignment with the Electrical Safety Regulations, Housekeeping, and
Miscellaneous Updates to the Building and Electrical By-laws
February 3, 2023
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, various housekeeping, and miscellaneous
changes to the Building By-law #12511 as set out in this report and as attached
in Appendix A of the Report, dated February 3, 2023, entitled, “Alignment with the
Electrical Regulations, Housekeeping, and Miscellaneous Updates to the
Building and Electrical By-laws”, to come into force and take effect upon
enactment, except that some amendments will come into force and take effect on
July 1, 2023;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
the necessary by-law amendments for enactment by Council, generally as set
out in Appendix A of the above-noted report.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, various housekeeping amendments, and
miscellaneous changes to the Electrical By-law #5563, as attached in Appendix B
of the Report, dated February 3, 2023, entitled “Alignment with the Electrical
Regulations, Housekeeping, and Miscellaneous Updates to the Building and
Electrical By-laws”, to come into force and take effect upon enactment;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
the necessary by-law amendments for enactment by Council, generally as set
out in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09011)
7. Establishment of Civic Agencies
February 6, 2023
A. THAT Council re-establish the following 11 Type A civic agencies, with terms of
reference as identified in Appendix B of the Report, dated February 6, 2023,
entitled “Establishment of Civic Agencies”, for a term to end November 1, 2026:
• 2SLGBTQ+ Advisory Committee
• Arts and Culture Advisory Committee
• Children, Youth, and Families Advisory Committee
• Older Persons and Elders Advisory Committee
• Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee
• Racial and Ethno-Cultural Equity Advisory Committee
• Renters Advisory Committee
• Transportation Advisory Committee

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 12
• Urban Indigenous Peoples’ Advisory Committee
• Vancouver Food Policy Council
• Women’s Advisory Committee
B. THAT Council request that the Children, Youth, and Families Advisory Committee
and the Vancouver Food Policy Council conduct reviews of their respective sizes,
scopes, and composition statements as part of their work plans, and report back
with recommendations to the Nomination Subcommittee within six months of
their first regular meetings.
C. THAT Council re-establish the following three Type B civic agencies, with terms
of reference as identified in Appendix C of the Report, dated February 6, 2023,
entitled “Establishment of Civic Agencies”, for a term to end November 1, 2026.
• Chinatown Historic Area Planning Committee;
• First Shaughnessy Advisory Design Panel;
• Gastown Historic Area Planning Committee.
D. THAT Council establish a new Type B civic agency called the Street Naming
Committee, to replace the Type A Civic Asset Naming Committee, with terms of
reference as identified in Appendix D of the Report, dated February 6, 2023,
entitled “Establishment of Civic Agencies”.
E. THAT Council request the Mayor to bring forward for Council consideration up to
two non-voting Council liaisons for each Type A and B civic agency, in
accordance with relevant mandates and terms of reference.
F. THAT Council request each Type A and B civic agency determine whether, in
accordance with relevant mandates and work plans, external liaison
representation is needed from the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation, the
Vancouver Police Department, the Vancouver Public Library, and/or the
Vancouver School Board, and submit recommendations to the Nomination
Subcommittee within three months of their first regular meetings;
FURTHER THAT Council direct the Nomination Subcommittee to review and
consider Type A and B civic agencies’ recommendations and work with the
Mayor’s Office to invite external liaisons from the Vancouver Board of Parks and
Recreation, the Vancouver Police Department, the Vancouver Public Library,
and/or the Vancouver School Board to sit on civic agencies, as needed.
G. THAT Council direct the City Manager to assign up to two non-voting staff
liaisons to each Type A and B civic agency in accordance with relevant mandates
and terms of reference.
H. THAT Council approve Nomination Subcommittee terms of reference as
identified in Appendix E of the Report, dated February 6, 2023, entitled
“Establishment of Civic Agencies”.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 13
I. THAT Council direct staff to work with Park Board staff to explore the potential for
stronger linkages between the Park Board’s City Wide Youth Council and the
City’s civic agency system, and report back to the Nomination Subcommittee by
Q4 2023.
J. THAT Council direct staff to explore the feasibility, utility, and budgetary impact of
honoraria for volunteer members of civic agencies, and/or external liaisons and
other participants, and report back to the Nomination Subcommittee by Q4 2023.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09012)
8. Auditor General Committee Recommendations Transmittal Report
February 2, 2023
THAT Council approve the recommendations from the February 2, 2023, Auditor General
Committee meeting as follows:
A. THAT the Auditor General’s January 2023 report entitled “2022 Annual
Report and 2023 Operational Plan” be received.
B. THAT the Auditor General’s January 2023 report entitled “Audit of Building
Permit Fees” be received;
FURTHER THAT the report’s five recommendations be endorsed.
C. THAT a targeted recruitment process to fill the vacant position of External
Advisory Liaison member on the Auditor General Committee, as outlined in
the Report dated January 23, 2023, entitled “Auditor General Committee –
External Liaison Recruitment” be approved;
FURTHER THAT an informal working group to oversee the External Advisory
Liaison member recruitment process, made up of Councillors Fry, Montague
and External Liaison Archie G. Johnston be approved.
D. THAT the City Clerk be directed to report back at the next scheduled AGC
meeting with revised Terms of Reference in recognition of the current high
quorum threshold of four of five members present, by adding an alternate
committee member position for the Committee’s endorsement and
subsequent recommendation to Council.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09013)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 14
REFERRAL REPORTS
1. Rezoning: 5828-5850 Granville Street
January 31, 2023
THAT the rezoning application, described below, be referred to Public Hearing together
with the recommendations set out below and with the recommendation of the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability to approve the application,
subject to the conditions set out below;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-laws in accordance with the recommendations set out below, for consideration at the
Public Hearing.
RECOMMENDATION FOR PUBLIC HEARING
A. THAT the application, by Strand Holdings Ltd. on behalf of Granville Street East
Nominee Inc., Inc. No. BC1361576, the registered owner of 5828 Granville Street
[PID 009-946-896; Lot 5 of Lot 1, Block 6, District Lot 526, Plan 5486], 5830
Granville Street [PID 010-491-872; Lot 6 of Lot 1, Block 6, District Lot 526, Plan
5486], and 5850 Granville Street [PID 011-141-701; Lot 7 of Lot 1, Block 6,
District Lot 526, Plan 5486], to rezone a consolidation of the above properties
from RS-1 (Residential) District to RR-2B (Residential Rental) District, be
approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft zoning amendment by-law, prepared for the Public
Hearing in accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report, dated January 31,
2023, entitled “Rezoning: 5828-5850 Granville Street”, be approved in principle;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report, dated January 31, 2023
entitled “Rezoning: 5828-5850 Granville Street”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for
enactment prior to enactment of the zoning amendment By-law, subject to such
terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT subject to approval of the zoning amendment by-law, the Subdivision
Bylaw be amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report,
dated January 31, 2023, entitled “Rezoning: 5828-5850 Granville Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the zoning
amendment by-law.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 15
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09015)
2. Rezoning: 1522 West 45th Avenue and 6137 Granville Street
January 31, 2023
THAT the rezoning application, described below, be referred to Public Hearing together
with the recommendations set out below and with the recommendation of the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability to approve the application,
subject to the conditions set out below;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-laws, in accordance with the recommendations set out below, for consideration at the
Public Hearing.
RECOMMENDATION FOR PUBLIC HEARING
A. THAT the application by Intracorp Homes, on behalf of Amica Seniors Granville
Inc., the registered owners of the lands located at 1522 West 45th Avenue and
6137 Granville Street [Lot 17 and 16 of Lot 5, Block 3, District Lot 526 Plan 5701;
PIDs: 005-095-361 and 004-289-323 respectively], to rezone the lands from
RS-3 (Residential) District to RR-2B (Residential Rental) District, be approved in
principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft zoning amendment by-law, prepared for the Public
Hearing in accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report, dated January 31,
2023, entitled “Rezoning: 1522 West 45th Avenue and 6137 Granville Street”, be
approved in principle;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report, dated January 31,
2023, entitled “Rezoning: 1522 West 45th Avenue and 6137 Granville Street”, the

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 16
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning amendment
By-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion
of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT subject to approval of the zoning amendment by-law, the Subdivision
Bylaw be amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report,
dated January 31, 2023, entitled “Rezoning: 1522 West 45th Avenue and 6137
Granville Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the zoning
amendment bylaw.
D. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any costs
incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of rezoning are
at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09016)
3. CD-1 Rezoning: 7688-7720 Cambie Street
January 31, 2023
THAT the rezoning application and plans, described below, be referred to Public Hearing
together with the recommendations set out below and with the recommendation of the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability to approve the
application, subject to the conditions set out below;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-laws, in accordance with the recommendations set out below, for consideration at the
Public Hearing.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 17
RECOMMENDATION FOR PUBLIC HEARING
A. THAT the application by Ciccozzi Architecture Inc. on behalf of 1108289 B.C. Ltd.,
Inc. No. BC1108289, the registered owner of the lands located at
• 7688-7690 Cambie Street [PID 009-690-000; Lot 6 Block O District Lot
323 Plan 9322]; and
• 7710-7720 Cambie Street [Strata Lots 1 and 2 District Lot 323 Strata Plan
VR. 1090, Together with an Interest in the Common Property in
Proportion to the Unit Entitlement of the Strata Lot as Shown on Form 1;
PIDs 006-362-222 and 006-362-249, respectively];
to rezone from RT-1 (Residential) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.60 to 2.75 and the building
height from 6.1 m (20 ft.) to 21.3. m (70 ft.), to permit the development of a six-
storey residential building containing 60 strata-titled residential units, be
approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft CD-1 By-law, prepared for the Public Hearing in
accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report, dated January 31, 2023,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 7688-7720 Cambie Street”, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Ciccozzi Architecture Inc., received
May 6, 2022, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations
to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City, and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09017)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 18
4. CD-1 Rezoning: 103-111 North Templeton Drive and 2185 Oxford Street
January 31, 2023
THAT the rezoning application and plans, described below, be referred to Public Hearing
together with the recommendations set out below and with the recommendation of the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability to approve the
application, subject to the conditions set out below;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-law(s), in accordance with the recommendations set out below, for consideration at
the Public Hearing.
RECOMMENDATION FOR PUBLIC HEARING
A. THAT the application by 1114747 B.C. Ltd.1, the registered owner of the lands
located at 103-111 North Templeton Drive and 2185 Oxford Street [Lots 12 and
13, Block 15 District Lot 184 Plan 178; PIDs 007-150-164 and 010-514-830
respectively] to rezone the lands from RM-3A (Residential) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to increase the floor space ratio from 1.0
to 2.4 and the maximum building height from 10.7 m (35.1 ft.) to 21.1 m (69.2 ft.),
to permit a six-storey building containing 36 secured-market rental units, be
approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft CD-1 By-law, prepared for the Public Hearing in
accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report, dated CD-1 Rezoning:
103-111 North Templeton Drive and 2185 Oxford Street”, be approved in
principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Stuart Howard Architects Inc. received
December 10, 2021, provided that the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Report, dated CD-1 Rezoning: 103-111
North Templeton Drive and 2185 Oxford Street”, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and conditions as
may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services, the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and the General Manager
of Arts, Culture and Community Services.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
1 Represented by Qwid Capital

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 19
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City, and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09018)
5. Rezoning: 817-837 West 28th Avenue and 4375 Willow Street
January 31, 2023
THAT the rezoning application, described below, be referred to Public Hearing together
with the recommendations set out below and with the recommendation of the General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability to approve the application,
subject to the conditions set out below;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-law(s), in accordance with the recommendations set out below, for consideration at
the Public Hearing.
RECOMMENDATION FOR PUBLIC HEARING
A. THAT the application by Shape Architecture Inc., on behalf of 1348857 B.C.
Ltd.2, the registered owners of the lands located at 817-837 West 28th Avenue
and 4375 Willow Street [Lots 8-11 Block 717 District Lot 526 Plan 5377;
PIDs 011-166-371, 008-494-355, 011-166-398 and 007-147-881 respectively], to
rezone the lands from RS-1 (Residential) District to RM-8A (Residential) District,
be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft zoning amendment by-law, prepared for the Public
Hearing in accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report, dated January 31,
2023, entitled “Rezoning: 817-837 West 28th Avenue and 4375 Willow Street”, be
approved in principle;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT, subject to approval of the zoning amendment by-law, the Subdivision
By-law be amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Report, dated
2 Represented by Mohammad Tavangar

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 20
January 31, 2023, entitled “Rezoning: 817-837 West 28th Avenue and 4375
Willow Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the zoning
amendment by-law.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 09019)
6. Miscellaneous Amendments Concerning Various CD-1 By-laws
January 31, 2023
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make application to bring forward the zoning by-law amendments as described below
and that the application be referred to Public Hearing together with the
recommendations set out below;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
by-laws, in accordance with the recommendations set out below, for consideration at the
Public Hearing.
RECOMMENDATION FOR PUBLIC HEARING
THAT Council approve the application to:
(i) amend CD-1 (80) By-law No. 4665 for 4949-4951 Heather Street to add
Interim Uses and add Office Uses, limited to Temporary Sales Office,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report, dated
January 31, 2023 entitled “Miscellaneous Amendments Concerning
Various CD-1 By-laws”;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 21
(ii) amend CD-1 (312) By-law No. 7200 for 1529 West Pender Street,
560-588 Cardero Street, 535 Nicola Street, 499 Broughton Street and
1199 West Cordova Street to correct a map referencing error, generally
as presented in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
(iii) amend CD-1 (643) By-law No. 11661 for 1335 Howe Street to permit a
wider range of commercial uses, generally as presented in Appendix C of
the above-noted report; and
(iv) amend CD-1 (845) By-law No. 13614 for 728-796 Main Street to correct a
reference for the location of family housing, generally as presented in
Appendix D of the above-noted report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (VOTE No. 09020)
BY-LAWS
At the Council meeting on January 31, 2023, Councillors Klassen, Meiszner, Montague and
Zhou advised they had reviewed the proceedings related to by-law 3 and would therefore be
voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 4 inclusive, and authorize
the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2009-2037 Stainsbury Avenue (By-law No.
13617)
2. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 815 SW Marine Drive (By-law No. 13618)
3. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (728-796 Main Street) (By-law No. 13619)
(Mayor Sim ineligible to vote)
4. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (728-796 Main Street) (By-law No.
13620)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 22
MOTIONS
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted Leaves of Absence for civic business from
meetings on March 28, 2023, from 6 pm to 10 pm, and April 26, 2023, from 5 pm to
10 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Boyle be granted Leaves of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on April 4 to 6, 2023, and May 15 to June 2, 2023;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Klassen be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings on April 3 to 6, 2023;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Carr be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on March 30, 2023, from 6 pm to 10 pm;
AND FURTHER THAT Councillor Bligh be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on February 23, 2023, from 9:30 am to 1 pm, March 7, 2023,
from 9:30 am to 10 pm, March 8, 2023, from 9:30 am to 10 pm, and March 9, 2023, from
3 pm to 10 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Equity Lens Review of City By-laws to Ensure Equity is at the Forefront
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
WHEREAS
1. The health and vitality of Vancouver’s communities is one of the key reasons
Vancouver is considered to be among the best places on earth to live;
2. To ensure the continued sustainability and livability of the city’s neighbourhoods,
Vancouver City Council and City Staff are committed to working with community
groups and other agencies to address critical social issues that affect us all, and
to ensure that the needs of all residents are met as we work toward making
Vancouver a fairer, safer, more equitable, more accessible, and more inclusive
city;
3. The City has an Equity Framework, and actions have been taken to ensure that
the rights and dignity of all people are upheld, that we are addressing historic and
current systemic injustice and reducing harm, that we are removing barriers and

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 23
creating equal opportunities and accessibility for all residents, and that we are
advancing reconciliation, equity, and anti-racism for all people; i
4. By-laws formalize rules made by a council or board in accordance with their
statutory authority and are used to regulate, prohibit, and/or impose
requirements;
5. Local governments in B.C. may only make decisions by by-law or by resolution.
In some cases, provincial legislation requires that a local government power be
exercised only by means of a by-law (while in other circumstances local
governments have the choice to either pass a by-law or a resolution);
6. Section 151 of the Vancouver Charter describes the powers of Vancouver City
Council to establish and enforce by-laws; ii
7. The City of Vancouver has nearly 200 consolidated By-laws. Examples include,
the 2010 Winter Games By-law No. 9962, the Area Specific Development Cost
Levy By-law No. 9418, the Parking Meter By-law No. 2952, and the Zoning &
Development Fee By-law No. 5585;
8. The importance of applying an equity lens to all that we do as a City Council, as
a City, and as City staff cannot be understated. By keeping equity at the forefront
of all that we do, and by respecting, appreciating, and embracing that which
makes us different, regardless of age, gender identity and expression, level of
education, neurodiversity, ethnicity, religion, ability, sexual orientation, or national
origin, we continue to build a city that is safe, accessible, and inclusive for all
where everyone can thrive.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back by the end of
Q3 2023 with a high level inventory of City by-laws that may potentially require
amendments and/or updating in order to align with the City’s equity objectives and
Equity Framework, including information regarding the scope of work and staff resources
that might be required for a substantive review and analysis of all City by-laws and past
amendments, as well as information regarding any specific complaints and/or
correspondence received by the City with respect to By-laws that may require priority
attention;
FURTHER THAT Staff be directed to ensure that all future by-laws and by-law
amendments are being conceived of and/or reviewed through an equity lens as a prime
consideration.
____________________
i Under the Vancouver Charter, the powers of Council may be exercised by by-law. City of Vancouver
bylaws are numbered consecutively, starting with bylaw No. 1, which was enacted (i.e., passed into law)
on May 18, 1886. Over the years, Council has enacted approximately 10,000 by-laws. Many of the more
recent by-laws have been scanned and are available for viewing on the by-law webpage. The most
frequently used by-laws have been consolidated for convenience. In a consolidated by-law, the original
by-law (sometimes called the "parent by-law") is updated to include all of the amendments to that by-law.
All of the consolidated by-laws are also available for viewing on the by-law webpage. The electronic
versions of the by-laws are made available for convenience only. Official copies of most City by-laws can

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 24
be obtained from the City Clerk's Office. There is a fee for this service for the production of all certified
copies of by-laws. https://app.vancouver.ca/bylaw_net/hlpGeneral.htm
ii Vancouver Charter Section 151 – Exercise of Council powers by by-law and resolution: (1) Except as
restricted by this section, the powers of the Council may be exercised either by by-law or by resolution.
(2)A by-law may not be amended by resolution. (3) If an enactment provides that Council is required or
empowered to exercise a power by by-law, that power may only be exercised by by-law. (4) If the Council
exercises a power to direct that a thing should or should not be done and a person who fails to comply is
subject to a fine or penalty, the power shall be exercised by by-law.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council waive hearing from registered speakers on Motion B2.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The motion to waive hearing from speakers having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY, was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 09025)
3. Repealing Vancouver’s Single-Use Beverage Cup Fee
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. On January 1, 2022, the minimum fee of $0.25 for each single-use beverage cup
distributed under the City’s By-laws came into effect (i.e., License By-law No.
4450 and Ticket Offences By-law No. 9360);
2. In the days following the January 1, 2022, implementation of the $0.25 fee on
single-use beverage cups, numerous unintended consequences and publicly-
identified concerns became apparent almost immediately and were widely
reported in the media and on social media. Not the least of these were the equity
impacts that the new fee was having on the most vulnerable persons in our
community;
3. On January 25, 2022, in the wake of the single-use beverage cup fee
implementation on January 1, 2022, Council unanimously directed staff to report
back – on an urgent basis – by or before March 15, 2022, in order to provide
Council with a better understanding of the known facts and experiences to date
relative to the $0.25 single-use beverage cup fee;
4. At the March 2, 2022, Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic
Priorities, staff reported back to Council (i.e., Agenda Item 1: Revisiting the City’s
Single-Use Beverage Cup Fee Policy), with a number of recommendations

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 25
including exempting drinks “provided at no cost to the customer from the cup fee
requirement,” such as free drink vouchers and monetary gift vouchers,
developing low barrier cup-share programs that can be accessed by people
experiencing poverty or living with low incomes, and approving, in principle, by-
law amendments that require food vendors to accept a customer’s reusable cup
for in-store orders;
5. The ongoing experience and feedback regarding the City’s $0.25 single-use
beverage cup fee clearly indicates that the policy has not been effective in
accomplishing its intended objectives (i.e., to change consumer behaviour,
reduce the use of single-use beverage cups that ultimately end up in the landfill,
and encourage people to switch to reusable cups);
6. Single-use beverage cups are recyclable and they are included in residential blue
bin programs, including the City of Vancouver’s blue bin program. Once the
recycled cups arrive at an end processor, they are shredded and washed and the
plastic component separated from the fibre component. The recaptured fibre is a
valuable resource;
7. The City has a Vancouver Zero Waste Centre located at 8588 Yukon Street that
accepts Printed paper, Paper packaging, Cardboard boxes, Plastic containers,
Metal containers, Cartons and paper cups, Glass bottles and jars, Foam
packaging, Plastic bags and overwrap, Other Flexible Plastic Packaging;
8. Likewise, Recycle BC has a network of depots across BC where residents can
drop off packaging and paper free of charge. Most depots accept all materials
including paper, packaging, cardboard boxes, plastic containers, metal
containers, cartons and paper cups, non-deposit glass bottles and jars, foam
packaging, plastic bags and overwrap, and other flexible plastic packaging;
9. Subsequent to the implementation of the City’s $0.25 fee on single-use beverage
cups, Return-It and several companies such as Tim Hortons and Starbucks (with
involvement by City) initiated a pilot project to reduce single-use cup waste –
see: Reusable and Single-Use Cup Recycling Pilot (https://www.return-
it.ca/cups);
10. Similarly, the Binners' Project, as an example, hosts an annual Coffee Cup
Revolution event to demonstrate what a coffee cup refund system could achieve,
as well as to open the dialogue around how binning can support green
communities, and vice versa. Coffee Cup Revolution participants exchange tens
of thousands of cups during the event for a 10¢ refund. Since the start of the
Coffee Cup Revolution, binners in Vancouver have reportedly collected nearly
400,000 coffee cups by way of these annual events;
11. The City remains committed to reducing waste and litter from single-use items as
we work toward becoming a zero waste community by 2040, including reducing
the use of single-use beverage cups that otherwise end up in the landfill as well
as encouraging people to switch to reusable cups as an alternative;
12. Given the overwhelmingly clear, unambiguous evidence that has accumulated
over the past year since the introduction of the City’s $0.25 single-use beverage

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 26
cup fee, notably its failure to change consumer behaviour in the manner
intended, it is incumbent upon Council to explore other policy options and
pathways in order to achieve the desired and intended waste reduction
outcomes.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to
prepare amendments to the License By-law No. 4450 and the Ticket Offences By-law
No. 9360 to repeal those sections enacted by Council on January 21, 2020, relating to
single-use beverage cups, including any relevant by-law amendments enacted
concurrently and/or subsequently, at the earliest possible date but no later than June 1,
2023;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to report back to Council by 2023 Q4 with policy
recommendations and alternative pathways that can effectively, efficiently, and
measurably achieve the waste reduction and behaviour change outcomes anticipated in
the implementation of the $0.25 single-use beverage cup fee, including recycling options
and initiatives;
AND FURTHER THAT Council resolve to work with provincial and federal counterparts
to facilitate and enable prompt, coordinated action on single-use items toward
comprehensive regional, provincial, and national strategies and actions.
* * * * *
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the motion entitled “Repealing Vancouver’s Single-Use Beverage Cup Fee” be
referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
Wednesday, February 15, 2023, at 9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers, followed by
debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Climate Action Costs and Benefits
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. The Federation of Canadian Municipalities estimates that local governments
across Canada need $5.3 billion each year in order to prepare their infrastructure
and systems to avoid massive costs due to climate change. The City of
Vancouver builds, owns and maintains a wide range of public infrastructure from
roads to storm drains and sewers, to sidewalks and sea walls, to green

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 27
infrastructure, parks and our tree canopy, that are vulnerable to our changing
climate (see: Federation of Canadian Municipalities and Insurance Bureau of
Canada’s 2020 report Investing in Canada's Future: The Cost of Climate
Adaptation at the Local Level http://assets.ibc.ca/Documents/Disaster/The-Cost-
of-Climate-Adaptation-Report-EN.pdf);
2. The City of Vancouver and its residents have recently experienced severe health
impacts including loss of life, and financial losses resulting from climate change-
related wildfire smoke, heat dome, extreme storms and other climate events
made more extreme and frequent by accelerating climate change. Many of these
negative impacts are reduced by investments in climate-resilient infrastructure
including retrofitting public buildings as safe places with clean air, heating and
cooling where people can retreat to in extreme weather events;
3. Vancouver City Council and the public do not have a detailed understanding of
the full range and magnitude of costs experienced to date and likely to be
experienced by the City of Vancouver to mitigate and adapt to climate change,
notwithstanding some past cost estimates provided by city staff including for sea
level rise (estimated in 2018 at $1 billion for a projected sea level rise of 1 meter
by 2100 – see https://dailyhive.com/vancouver/vancouver-protect-rise-sea-level-
2018) and an estimate in 2022 that the city is spending about $50 million a year
on climate-related adaptation and $65 million a year on climate mitigation, plus
climate-action-related administration costs of $40 million;
4. Despite Vancouver’s 1990 Clouds of Change report recommending reducing the
city and region’s Greenhouse Gases (GhGs) by 20 percent by 2005, its 2010
Greenest City Action Plan goal to reduce Vancouver’s GhGs by 33 percent by
2020, and its 2020 Climate Emergency Action Plan (CEAP) goal to reduce GhGs
by 50 percent by 2030 and to be carbon neutral before 2050, the city has only
reduced its GhGs by an estimated 10 to 15 percent over 2007 levels;
5. Ambitious goals, such as reducing Vancouver’s GhGs by 50 percent by 2030,
are rarely achieved unless there is a solid plan with specific actions, sufficient
resources, regular assessment of the impact of each action and progress
towards achieving the goal, and quick course corrections when progress is
lagging. Although City Council receives highlights and update reports on CEAP, it
does not yet receive comprehensive and detailed costs and benefits of all the
City’s GhG-reducing (mitigation) actions, nor of the projects to repair climate-
caused damage to infrastructure and other adaptation measures that increase
resilience to climate change impacts, including for vulnerable and at-risk
populations;
6. As noted by the Canadian Climate Institute, investments in both mitigation and
adaptation can help reduce the costs of climate change, by as much as 50
percent each (and 75 percent in total if both occur). Understanding the benefits,
as well as the costs, of climate mitigation and adaptation could assist Council in
its financial, infrastructure, emergency management and other planning, and the
public in understanding the need to prepare for climate change impacts; (see:
Climate Change Institute. Damage Control: Reducing the Costs of Climate
Impacts in Canada https://climateinstitute.ca/reports/damage-control/;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 28
7. Public reporting on the costs and benefits of city spending on climate mitigation
and adaptation provides transparency and accountability to the general public
and taxpayers, and compelling information for senior governments and other
funders regarding the urgent need to invest in the City’s climate actions;
8. Given the indisputable scientific evidence of accelerating climate change, it is
essential that the City of Vancouver invest in measures that will enable us to
meet our climate emergency goals to rapidly reduce the City of Vancouver’s
GHGs, increase our city’s resilience as well as repair climate-related damage to
our infrastructure.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT City Council direct staff to:
A. Prepare an overview to help inform Council’s decision-making on the City of
Vancouver’s 2023 Operating Budget on how much of the operating budget is
directly related to climate action, what that funding is used for, and how it benefits
the City and residents, including positive impacts on health and air quality and
helping avoid or reduce future costs of coping with climate impacts.
B. Report back by the end of 2023 and thereafter on an annual basis to update
Council with a “carbon budget” that more thoroughly presents the current and
anticipated costs and benefits of the city’s climate emergency action regarding:
i. additional repair, replacement or increase of city-owned infrastructure
necessitated by the impacts of climate change (i.e., beyond the costs of
meeting the needs of new development and scheduled infrastructure
maintenance and replacement related to regular use, wear and tear);
ii. likely future climate impacts on Vancouver should the City not take
appropriate climate adaptation measures;
iii. planned or proposed adaptation or resilience measures required to
prepare for future climate impacts, and the extent to which those
measures are likely to reduce the costs in B.i and/or B.ii;
iv. the results of mitigation measures in terms of actual and expected direct
GHG reductions and whether the measures put the City on track to
achieve its climate goals;
v. the social and economic benefits of the City’s climate emergency actions,
including for the most vulnerable people in our city;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 29
FURTHER THAT to include in the annual reports recommendations on how to maximize
the positive benefits to the City of climate action, including how to better avoid climate
costs and minimize the negative impacts of our changing climate.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the motion entitled “Climate Action Costs and Benefits” be referred to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, February
15, 2023, at 9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers, followed by debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Flag Raising at City Hall to Recognize Black History Month in Vancouver in 2024
Councillor Meiszner submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 7, 2023, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Councillor Fry be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from meetings on
February 23, 2023;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings on February 23, 2023, from 5 pm to 10 pm;
FURTHER THAT Mayor Sim be granted Leaves of Absence for civic business on
February 14, 2023, from 7 pm to 10 pm, March 28, 2023, from 5 pm to 10 pm, and April
26, 2023, from 4 pm to 10 pm;
AND FURTHER THAT Mayor Sim be granted Leaves of Absence for personal reasons
on March 29, 2023, from 6 pm to 10 pm and May 11, 2023, from 12 pm to 10 pm
personal reasons.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 14, 2023 30
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Lease Renewals for Temporary Modular Housing
Councillor Boyle made an enquiry with regard to updates from the city on lease renewals
for temporary modular housing sites, with the hope that this information could be passed
on to concerned members of the public. Councillor Boyle also enquired if the city was
actively looking at relocating certain sites. The City Manager provided a brief update and
agreed to provide a response.
2. Potential for Permanent Modular Housing Sites
Councillor Carr enquired whether potential permanent sites for modular housing would
be on city lands, private lands or both. The City Manager provided a brief update and
agreed to provide a response
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 4:27 pm.
* * * * *