REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JULY 20, 2022
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, July 20, 2022, at 9:34 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh*
Councillor Christine Boyle* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business 1 pm to 4 pm)
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick*
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung*
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business 1 pm to 4 pm)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Reports 1 and 2 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. Contract Award for Asphalt Milling Services
June 24, 2022
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering Services, City’s Director of Legal Services, and
the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into three separate contracts with
the following contractors:
• Eurovia (B.A. Blacktop) as Contractor A (primary contractor) to provide
two meter grinders for asphalt milling services;
• Lafarge Canada as Contractor A (primary contractor) to provide one
meter grinders for asphalt milling services; and
• Tarmac Grinding as Contractor B (secondary contractor) to provide one
meter grinders and as Contractor B (secondary contractor) to provide two
meter grinders for asphalt milling services;
The contracts with the above vendors will be for a term of three years, with the
option to extend for six additional one year terms, with an estimated combined
contract value of $2,410,119 plus applicable taxes over the initial three-year
term, to be funded through 2022-2025 Engineering Operating and Capital
Approved Budgets.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of the City
the contracts contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contracts are executed by the authorized
signatories of the City as set out in A and B above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 08702)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 3
2. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Janitorial Supplies
June 22, 2022
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, City’s Director of
Legal Services, and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into a
contract with Grand & Toy Limited, for the supply and delivery of janitorial
supplies, for a term of three (3) years, with the option to extend for thee (3)
additional two (2) year terms, with an estimated contract value of $3,013,639.03,
plus applicable taxes over the initial 3-year term, to be funded through operating
budget of various City departments.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Real Estate and facilities Management be authorized to execute on
behalf of the City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A and B above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 08704)
3. 2030 Winter Games Bid Update
June 7, 2022
Staff from the City Manager’s Office presented an update, and along with members from the
Musqueam Indian Band, Squamish Nation, Tsleil-Waututh Nation, and Lil’wat Nation, as well as
representatives from the Canadian Olympic Committee and the 2030 Winter Games Leadership
Assembly responded to questions.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee suspend Section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law in order to allow
an additional round of questions to staff after hearing from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AND BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
The Committee heard from six speakers in support of the recommendations.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 4
* * * * *
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 12 pm in order to complete hearing from
speakers to Item 3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AND BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:10 pm and reconvened at 1:16 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive the report dated June 7, 2022, entitled “2030 Winter
Games Bid Update,” for information, and instruct staff to report back to Council
for a decision as to whether to advance the City of Vancouver’s participation in
the Indigenous-led bid for the 2030 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games as a
Host City:
i. once the Host Nations Exploratory Assembly for the 2030 Olympic and
Paralympic Winter Games Bid Consideration (“the Leadership Assembly”)
has publicly announced whether or not they recommend advancing the
BC bid,
ii. once City staff have sufficient clarity from the Canadian Olympic
Committee (“COC”) concerning the financial, operating, indemnification
and governance models of the proposed 2030 Winter Games to
meaningfully inform a Council decision, and
iii. once the COC has confirmed that the City will be appropriately
indemnified in its role as an Olympic Host City by the provincial
government, federal government, and/or the International Olympic
Committee.
B. THAT the Mayor, representing Council, write letters to the provincial and federal
governments requesting that they each clarify as soon as possible:
i. whether, if a BC bid were to be awarded by the International Olympic
Committee, and if the City of Vancouver were to take on the role of an
Olympic Host City, they would be appropriately indemnifying the City,
and/or ensuring that the IOC would be providing these indemnities, and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 5
ii. the extent of their financial support for the 2030 Winter Games, so as to
allow the First Nations and municipalities involved in the 2030 BC bid to
advise the COC of the extent to which they would be able to contribute
capital and operating funding toward the 2030 Winter Games.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT in A, the words “receive this report for information” be removed.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT in A the words“direct the City to engage in further work to advance the bid process
with the Host Nations Exploratory Assembly for an Indigenous–led bid for the 2030
Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, and instruct staff to collaborate in
advancing negotiations on the terms of a proposed Multi-Party Agreement, and report
back to Council on the outcomes from this” be added after “THAT Council”;
FURTHER THAT the words “for a decision” be replaced with “decide.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08705)
The amendment to the amendment having carried the amended amendment was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08705), with Councillor Boyle absent for both votes.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the following be added as letters C, D, E, and F:
C. THAT Council direct the Chief Election Officer to include on the October 15, 2022
municipal election ballot, pursuant to Section 184 under the Vancouver Charter,
a question on the 2030 Olympics bid. In the event that any and all exploratory or
concrete bids involving Vancouver for hosting the 2030 Olympics are dropped by
the time ballots need to be finalized, this ballot question can be omitted.
D. THAT the question wording be modelled on the 2010 Olympic vote, as follows:
"Do you support or do you oppose the City of Vancouver's participation in
hosting the 2030 Olympic Winter Games and Paralympic Winter Games?
___ YES, I support the City of Vancouver's participation.
___ NO, I oppose the City of Vancouver's participation.”
E. THAT Council request the Mayor to send a letter on behalf of Council to the
Vancouver 2030 Society, informing them of the City’s intention to add an Olympic
ballot question.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 6
F. THAT Council request the Mayor to send a letter on behalf of Council to the
Canadian Olympic Committee (COC), and copy the Canadian Paralympic
Committee (CPC), informing them of the City’s intention to add an Olympic ballot
question.
LOST (Vote No. 08707)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, Wiebe, and
Mayor Stewart opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Ai be struck;
FURTHER THAT in Aii (to become Ai), the phrase “once City staff have sufficient clarity
from the” be struck and replaced with “City staff report back to Council on information
from”;
AND FURTHER THAT in Aiii (to become Aii), the phrase “once the COC has confirmed
that the City will” be struck and replaced with “City staff to convey to Council whether
the”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08708)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
The amendments having either lost or carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 087009) with Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed.
FINAL MOTION AS APPOVED
A. THAT Council direct the City to engage in further work to advance the bid
process with the Host Nations Exploratory Assembly for an Indigenous-led bid for
the 2030 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, and instruct staff to collaborate
in advancing negotiations on the terms of a proposed Multi-Party Agreement, and
report back to Council on the outcomes from this phase of collaboration and
request that Council decide as to whether to advance the City of Vancouver’s
participation in the Indigenous-led bid for the 2030 Olympic and Paralympic
Winter Games as a Host City:
i. City staff report back to Council on information from the Canadian
Olympic Committee (“COC”) concerning the financial, operating,
indemnification and governance models of the proposed 2030 Winter
Games to meaningfully inform a Council decision, and
ii. City staff to convey to Council whether the COC has confirmed that the
City will be appropriately indemnified in its role as an Olympic Host City
by the provincial government, federal government, and/or the
International Olympic Committee.
B. THAT the Mayor, representing Council, write letters to the provincial and federal
governments requesting that they each clarify as soon as possible:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 7
i. whether, if a BC bid were to be awarded by the International Olympic
Committee, and if the City of Vancouver were to take on the role of an
Olympic Host City, they would be appropriately indemnifying the City,
and/or ensuring that the IOC would be providing these indemnities, and
ii. the extent of their financial support for the 2030 Winter Games, so as to
allow the First Nations and municipalities involved in the 2030 BC bid to
advise the COC of the extent to which they would be able to contribute
capital and operating funding
4. Commemorating Muslim Holidays
At the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on July 6, 2022, Council
referred the following motion to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Muslim community of Vancouver, estimated to be around 70,000, is an
essential part of the Vancouver community, yet has only one of its holidays and
celebrations recognized by the City of Vancouver;
2. The global Muslim community, estimated to be around 1.8 billion, recognizes
three pivotal celebrations that are celebrated by Muslims in over 100 countries
around the world: the month of Ramadan, Eid al-Fitr, and Eid al-Adha;
3. The ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar is the month of Ramadan, a sacred
month to Muslims in Vancouver and across the globe;
4. The month of Ramadan and the surrounding practices are incredibly important to
Muslims, who engage in daily fasting from sunrise to sunset during the month as
one of the Five Pillars of their Faith;
5. The purpose of the month of Ramadan for Muslims is to engage in a month of
spiritual reflection, self-discipline, and cultivate empathy for the less fortunate and
build community;
6. The month of Ramadan connects the Muslim community to the other major
Abrahamic faiths, as it is believed by Muslims that all holy texts including the
Torah and Gospels were revealed during the month of Ramadan;
7. Vancouver is proud of its diverse community representing many different
traditions and faiths, which is connected to the spirit of Ramadan;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 8
8. On April 1, 2022 the Prime Minister of Canada released a statement
acknowledging Ramadan as both a special time to “reflect on values of peace,
compassion, and generosity” and “an opportunity to recognize the many
contributions that Muslim Canadians make and have made to the country,”
(https://pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2022/04/01/statement-prime-minister-
ramadan);
9. The two days following the month of Ramadan are a traditional holiday for the
Muslim community called Eid al-Fitr, celebrated globally;
10. The tenth day of the twelfth month of the Islamic calendar marks the beginning of
Eid al-Adha, another incredibly important celebration for the global Muslim
community that celebrates the story of the Abrahamic prophets Abraham and
Ishmael;
11. Eid al-Adha also connects Muslims to the other major Abrahamic faiths, as it is
the celebration of a pivotal Biblical story;
12. Eid al-Adha is already recognized by the city, but neither Ramadan nor Eid al-Fitr
are;
13. While the city already commemorates a Day of Action Against Islamophobia, this
is done to memorialize and commit to act against a heinous crime committed
against the Muslim community in Canada and is not a celebration; but rather, the
bare minimum to stand against a hate crime;
14. Despite this, hate crimes against Muslims continue to increase yearly, with
Islamophobia being a greater problem as time goes by;
15. When the Muslim community faces increasing Islamophobia, the recognition of
the Muslim community and its celebrations by the City will be a strong show of
support towards it;
16. The recognition of festivals connecting the Muslim community with other faiths
represented in Vancouver is a powerful opportunity to bring the Vancouver
community together in dialogue;
17. Canada as a whole recognizes countless days rooted in the dominant Christian
tradition such as Christmas, Easter, Sundays as weekends, etc. Marginalized
groups still see only a handful of their days commemorated;
18. Recognizing one marginalized group’s commemorations is a win for all
marginalized groups, that elevates all marginalized peoples and shows respect
for them; and
19. Seeing Muslim celebrations recognized may inspire other groups to pursue
having their commemorations recognized, and continues to establish precedents
for marginalized groups being acknowledged by the city.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 9
A. THAT the City of Vancouver add the month of Ramadan, Eid al-Fitr, and Eid
al-Adha, to its official celebrations and observations calendar.
B. THAT the City acknowledge Ramadan on its social media and website.
C. THAT the City investigates the possibility of co-hosting a yearly Iftar dinner once
during the month of Ramadan at sunset, collaborating with the local Muslim
community, and in the Ramadan spirit of inclusivity and community, also invite
groups and leaders representing other major faiths and First Nations.
D. THAT the City use the month of Ramadan to highlight the work being done by
Muslim charities and the Muslim community in the city.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08710)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
5. Backing the Class Action Lawsuit Against Oil Companies
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. On June 16, 2022, West Coast Environmental Law launched a campaign called
“Sue Big Oil” to encourage municipalities to offer up to $1 per resident for a class
action lawsuit against fossil fuel companies;
2. Verified by the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change scientists in their
2022 reports, climate change is rapidly accelerating;
3. As evidenced by the local 2021 heat dome, atmospheric river, polar vortex and a
storm-driven king tide, the costs to repair damage resulting from climate change
events are enormous;
4. A 2020 report in The Guardian suggests that 20 fossil fuel companies are
responsible for one-third of carbon emissions worldwide;
5. Class action lawsuits, such as with the tobacco industry, have helped mitigate the
root problem and costs;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 10
6. In June of 2019, Vancouver City Council voted to direct Mayor Stewart to write to
large fossil fuel companies and request they contribute to climate change-related
costs.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to include in
the draft 2023 Operating Budget an amount up to $1 per Vancouver resident to support
West Coast Environmental Law’s class action lawsuit against fossil fuel companies.
amended
* * * * *
Prior to the introduction of the following amendment, Chair Carr relinquished the Chair to
Vice-Chair Kirby-Yung in order to participate in debate.
Following completion of the item, Councillor Carr resumed the role of Chair.
* * * * *
AMENDEMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the phrase “West Coast Environmental Law’s class action lawsuit against fossil
fuel companies” be struck and replaced with the following:
“a class action lawsuit against fossil fuel companies by municipal governments,
as urged by West Coast Environmental Law’s Sue Big Oil campaign, with the
goal of municipal governments recovering costs they’ve borne to repair, adapt to
and mitigate damages caused by climate change resulting primarily from the
burning of fossil fuels.”
CARRIED (Vote No. 08711)
(Councillors Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED (Vote No.
8712) with Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung in opposed.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to include in
the draft 2023 Operating Budget an amount up to $1 per Vancouver resident to support
a class action lawsuit against fossil fuel companies by municipal governments, as urged
by West Coast Environmental Law’s Sue Big Oil campaign, with the goal of municipal
governments recovering costs they’ve borne to repair, adapt to and mitigate damages
caused by climate change resulting primarily from the burning of fossil fuels.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 11
6. Vancouver Hosting a C40 Climate Workshop for the Metro Vancouver Region
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is a member of C40 Cities—a climate leadership group of
nearly 100 world-leading cities collaborating to deliver the urgent action needed
now to confront the climate crisis;
2. C40 Cities has a Center for City Climate Policy and Economy that provides city
policy makers and practitioners with information, analysis and policy guidance to
implement progressive and equitable climate action;
3. C40 Cities also has a Knowledge Hub that provides C40 cities with practical
resources on many topics including how to finance retrofits of municipal
buildings, how to adapt a city to extreme heat, and best practices such as for
clean energy, climate equity, and public collaboration and outreach;
4. Some C40 cities, such as Toronto and Montreal, have provided regional
leadership with C40 staff support, by mounting workshops and providing
resources and training within their regions to advance collaborative climate
action; and
5. Representatives of C40 Cities have pledged to provide training and resources on
climate action planning for Vancouver and any Metro Vancouver regional
participants invited by the city to a Vancouver-hosted workshop.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to
investigate, liaise with Metro Vancouver, and provide a memo to Council on the scope,
logistics and resources needed for Vancouver to host, as a C40 city, a C40-supported
workshop on accelerating local climate action plans.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added to the end: “as well as the potential to co-host the
workshop in partnership with Metro Vancouver.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08713)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08714) with Mayor Stewart absent for vote.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 12
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to
investigate, liaise with Metro Vancouver, and provide a memo to Council on the scope,
logistics and resources needed for Vancouver to host, as a C40 city, a C40-supported
workshop on accelerating local climate action plans, as well as the potential to co-host
the workshop in partnership with Metro Vancouver.
7. Advocating for the Requirement of Side Guards on Heavy Trucks in Urban Areas
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete hearing from
speakers for Item 7.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
The Committee heard from six speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:10 pm and reconvened at 6:14 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. On June 29th, 28-year-old Vancouver resident and cyclist was tragically killed in
a collision with a semi-truck, who turned right while the cyclist was proceeding
straight through an intersection. Photographs of the scene, at the intersection of

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 13
Pacific and Hornby Street, show the bike fully underneath the truck, which did not
have side guards;
2. Truck side guards, or ‘lateral protection devices’ (LPD) are used to “reduce the
likelihood of injury to ‘unprotected road users’ when struck by a vehicle travelling
in a forward direction.”;1
3. The 2015 Canadian National Collision database suggests that 22% of fatalities
involving trucks and pedestrians or cyclists involve side impacts. In urban areas
like Vancouver, that rate is even higher. Many of these deaths could be avoided
by mandating the installation of side guards on large trucks. Side guards have
shown to be extremely effective at preventing fatalities and severe injuries
because they prevent cyclists and pedestrians from being trapped between the
truck’s wheels;
4. Truck side guards are mandatory throughout much of the world. The 2010
National Research Council Canada report “Side Guards for Trucks and Trailers”
concluded that European Union data demonstrated a reduction in deaths and
serious injuries following the introduction of side guards. In the UK, cyclist and
pedestrian fatalities dropped by 61 and 20 percent, respectively, when side
guards, front projection mirrors (“Class V”) and side close proximity mirrors
(“Class VI”) were made mandatory;2[2][5]
5. Mandating side guards on trucks falls under the jurisdiction of Transport Canada,
in its oversight capacity over motor vehicle safety regulations. Transport Canada
does not currently require side guards on large, heavy and semi-trucks;
6. A US National Transportation Safety Board study in 2014 found that side guards
could mitigate 9 of 10 injuries in side collisions;3
7. Side guards have been required in Europe since 1989, and are also mandatory
in Japan, China, Brazil and a number of cities throughout the United States;
8. Section 7.04 of the BC Motor Vehicle Act already requires vehicles to have
mirrors giving a rear view of the highway as well as mirrors with a view of the
adjacent lanes from 11m to 61m behind the vehicle. Large vehicles and trucks
with standard mirrors continue to have large blind spots at the front and
immediate side of the vehicles where cyclists and pedestrians can be present
and vulnerable;
9. There have been accidents across Canada similar to the June 29th in recent
years, including Ottawa and Montreal in 2016, with Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson
1 Individual Vehicle Approval (IVA): vehicle side guards (lateral protection devices) - GOV.UK
2 Side Guards for Trucks and Trailers Phase 1: Background Investigation - NRCC
3 How simple truck side guards could save thousands of lives

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 14
writing to Transport Canada to advocate for the recommended requirement of
side guards;
10. Municipalities can improve safety for vulnerable road users by mandating side
guards on city-owned vehicles. The Halifax Regional Council voted in June 2016
to require side guards on all City trucks and all trucks contracted by the City by
2022.4 Municipal action on lateral side guards could prevent tragedies happening
in our city in the future; and
11. The City of Vancouver’s Climate Emergency Action Plan aims to have 2/3 of all
trips in Vancouver be by active transportation and public transportation by 2030.
The City’s of Vancouver’s Transportation 2040 Plan also includes a goal of zero
traffic related fatalities, with an emphasis on vulnerable road users. Encouraging
more residents to walk, roll and cycle will reduce congestion and reduce carbon
pollution, but we need to make these options safer for everyone.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council require that side guards be installed on all City of
Vancouver and City contracted trucks, to reduce the potential danger to cyclists
and pedestrians within the City’s own fleet of vehicles, and direct staff to report
back with recommendations and a timeline for implementation;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to consider the potential of adding side
mirrors on all City of Vancouver and City contracted trucks, giving the driver a
better view of cyclists and pedestrians around their vehicles, and direct staff to
report back with recommendations and a timeline for implementation.
B. THAT Council direct staff to institute a review of traffic planning in areas where
right hand turns intercept with bike lanes at intersections, to ensure that hazards
and dangerous interactions between vehicles and cyclists are mitigated, and
come back with recommendations to council by Q1 2023.
C. THAT Council direct the Mayor to write a letter to the federal Minister of
Transport, the Honourable Omar Alghabra, calling for the federal government to
make side guards mandatory on large, heavy and semi-trucks in urban areas.
D. THAT Council advocate to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM) to
adopt a resolution asking Transport Canada to make side guards mandatory on
large, heavy and semi-trucks in urban areas.
4 https://cyclehalifax.ca/2016/06/say-yes-truck-side-guards/
5 https://tfl.gov.uk/info-for/deliveries-in-london/delivering-safely/safer-lorry-
scheme#:~:text=It%20ensures%20that%20only%20lorries,will%20have%20to%20be%20retrofitted.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 15
E. THAT Council direct the Mayor to write a letter to the provincial Minister of
Transport, Rob Fleming, calling for an amendment to Section 7.04 of the Motor
Vehicle Act to require mirrors covering the front and side blind spots on large,
heavy and semi-trucks in urban areas.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08715)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
8. Asking Staff to Put Money for a Seniors’ Planner in the Draft 2023 Budget
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Currently in the City of Vancouver based on 2021 Census data, 29.7% of the
population of the City of Vancouver are 55 years and older, 23% are 60 years
and older, and 17% are 65 years and older;
2. Based on CMHC data (2016) over 50% of all older adults who are renters are in
core housing need. The City of Vancouver’s Homelessness Services outreach
team has seen an increase in the number and percentage of seniors (aged 65+)
that staff work with to access a number of services such as access to health
supports, income, and appropriate housing. The City of Vancouver Renter's
Office staff also hear concerns of low-income senior renters, particularly those
facing growing health issues, being able to keep their housing;
3. Stats Canada has estimated that by 2046 the population of the older adults and
elders age 85 and above will triple. With more seniors living to 85 and beyond, an
increasing number of individuals will face limitations and long-term health
challenges. Older persons can face unique barriers to civic participation such as
health limitations, mobility challenges, and cognitive decline. This will put
increasing pressure on all levels of government to ensure adequate support, in
areas such as housing, health care and home care, as well as transportation,
among other things. These barriers put older persons at increased risk of
experiencing social isolation, loneliness, and economic vulnerability. This is an
important part of creating “complete communities” and ensuring there are
adequate programs and services to better address the needs and interests of an
ageing population;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 16
4. Recent health and climate emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and
the heat dome, have disproportionately impacted older persons. These crises
have highlighted the seriousness and urgency of addressing existing gaps in
policies, systems, housing, community services and programs to prevent further
devastating impacts on many people living in the city, including on older persons;
5. Older adults face much higher levels of social isolation and homelessness than
the general population. Given the diversity and intersectional nature of older
adults and Elders, that in addition to their experience of system-based and
individual-based discrimination given their ethno-cultural, racial, gender, sexual
orientation, lower income levels and health challenges they also face the added
burden of ageism which is pervasive across society;
6. The World Health Organization has declared 2021-2030 as the Decade of
Healthy Ageing and has incorporated additional metrics under the Healthy Cities
strategy toward improving quality of life specifically for older persons (mitigation
of poverty, food security, expand opportunities for civic engagement,
opportunities for lifelong learning, age and gender equality, job opportunities,
internet access and digital support, housing, etc.). New metrics have not been
updated in the City of Vancouver’s commitment to the City of Vancouver’s
Healthy City Strategy;
7. The Seniors’ Advisory Committee has conducted a jurisdictional scan of major
urban centres across Canada, and has found:
i. The City of Richmond with the co-ordination of a full-time dedicated seniors’
co-ordinator is in the final stages of a public review of a community-informed
Seniors Strategy 2022–2032 and is seeking final input from adults aged 55
years and over, their families and those who work with the 55+ population. All
Seniors’ related queries, requests, complaints are directed to the Program
Lead of Seniors Services which has created efficiencies in both outreach and
internal communication;
ii. The City of Ottawa, using a team approach, created a community-informed
two year 2020-2022 Older Adult Plan that includes 24 actions across
different domains (Public Transportation, Walkability and Pedestrian Safety,
Accessibility of Public Spaces, Healthy Ageing, Active Living, Respect and
Social Inclusion) listing lead department and assisting department leads, and
reporting indicators. The City of Ottawa holds regular cross-department
meetings to collaborate and review progress;
iii. The City of Toronto using a comprehensive cross-department team approach
is completing Toronto Seniors Strategy (TSS2.0), with 27 high-impact

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 17
community-informed recommendations (accountability leads in each
department) that built upon the original Seniors Strategy to improve the
wellbeing of seniors throughout Toronto. The domains of action in the TSS2.0
are: Transportation, Housing, Health, Employment and Income, and Access
to Information. Outcomes are monitored by the Toronto Seniors Strategy
Accountability Table, consisting of multi-sector stakeholder group focused on
seniors and aging which includes seniors, caregivers, community agencies,
advocacy, equity and diversity organizations, academic and research
partners, community funders, provincial and federal partners, local
businesses, school boards, hospitals, long-term care homes, and the Toronto
Central Local Health Integration Network. Annually the TSS2.0 co-chairs
publishes status updates to Council and the public. This complements other
landmark initiatives including the establishment of a Seniors Housing
Corporation, the creation of a new Integrated Service Model in TCHC seniors
buildings, improved information-sharing and access to services, a focus on
understanding the specific needs of Black and Indigenous seniors and Elders
and other racialized and equity-deserving groups, and services provided by
divisional partners across the City including dental care, funding to seniors
organizations, older adult recreation, etc. [Note the formal engagement of
federal and provincial stakeholders in planning and monitoring outcomes
facilitates buy-in and investment.];
iv. The City of Edmonton co-funds ($600K of 1 million budget) the Edmonton
Seniors Coordinating Council (ESCC), co-funds with the province a Family
and Community Support Services Liaison (0.5 FTE dedicated to Seniors) to
address (a) Mobility including built environments and accessibility; (b) age-
friendly lens; (c) social work lens; (d) the physical build of seniors’ centres.
The city also dedicates time for a Community Strategic Planning Analyst to
this portfolio. The ED of the ESCC, Family and Community Support Liaison
and Community Strategic Planning Analyst have regular meetings to plan and
address this portfolio. Currently the City of Edmonton are completing Phase II
of implementing cross-department initiatives to support healthy ageing;
8. 35 senior serving community organizations and four advisory committees
supported the January 27th council motion seeking staff support for a seniors
planner;
9. To date there has been no update, possibly as a result of limited staff time and
provisos to not interrupt other social equity initiatives in place indicating that
budget and resources need to be place to advance efforts to address the diverse
unmet needs and interests of older adults and elders; and
10. The Seniors’ Advisory Committee have asked Councillors Boyle and Swanson,
as their Council liaison’s, to bring this motion forward.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 18
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council request that City staff meet with representatives from the Seniors'
Advisory Committee, Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee, Racial and
Ethno-Cultural Equity Advisory Committee, Women’s Advisory Committee, Urban
Indigenous Peoples Advisory Committee and 2SLGBTQ+ Advisory Committee
for input, and prepare options for a budget item for a planner for older persons
and necessary resources for that planner, and that this budget item be in the
draft 2023 budget prepared for council’s consideration.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the following language be added to the end:
FURTHER THAT Arts, Culture and Community Services examine the potential for
further hiring efficiencies by redeploying internal head counts as was done in the
reorganization of the Accessibility Strategy to identify funding for a new Seniors Planner
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08716)
(Councillors Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08717) with Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
THAT Council request that City staff meet with representatives from the Seniors'
Advisory Committee, Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee, Racial and Ethno-
Cultural Equity Advisory Committee, Women’s Advisory Committee, Urban Indigenous
Peoples Advisory Committee and 2SLGBTQ+ Advisory Committee for input, and
prepare options for a budget item for a planner for older persons and necessary
resources for that planner, and that this budget item be in the draft 2023 budget
prepared for council’s consideration.
FURTHER THAT Arts, Culture and Community Services examine the potential for
further hiring efficiencies by redeploying internal head counts as was done in the
reorganization of the Accessibility Strategy to identify funding for a new Seniors Planner
9. Making it Easier to Host Outdoor Festivals and Events in Vancouver
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 19
WHEREAS
1. Outdoor festivals and events give people the opportunity to join together and
enjoy our locals arts, culture and celebrations, adding fun and vibrancy to city life;
2. The ability to gather and connect socially outdoors has become even more
valued as a result of the pandemic;
3. Groups and organizations wanting to host outdoor festivals in the City of
Vancouver, on a street, sidewalk, or plaza, are required to apply for approval;
4. The focus of event approvals is to ensure that events are safe and don’t
negatively affect the community, but in recent years it has become increasingly
challenging for festivals and events to navigate the City’s permitting processes.
Event hosts typically find the City’s regulations to be unwieldy and it takes an
undue length of time before a permit can be successfully obtained. Some
improvements are being made this year with the adoption of the Special Events
Policy, but more streamlining and simplification is needed and will be beneficial
to supporting local arts and culture in the city;
5. Costs for festivals and events have also been increasing due to increasing
policing costs and safety requirements, making it difficult for established festivals
to sustain and difficult for new and smaller events to be staged;
6. For events held in a Vancouver park, the oversight for granting approval falls
to the Vancouver Park Board. The Vancouver Park Board currently has a
moratorium on issuing permits for corporate events in parks, resulting in
tourism operators taking client groups to other municipalities to hold
conferences or events for visiting client;
7. There is a shortage of venues for local, live music for the public to enjoy and
for local musicians to play small, pop-up events; and
8. Festivals and events are key contributors to Vancouver’s economic health,
generating jobs and tax revenue.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back in Q2, 2023 on options for a more
streamlined Festivals and Events permitting process to reduce the amount of
time it takes to issue permits by reducing the complexity of applications and
giving consideration to separate permitting streams for smaller and larger events,
with a special focus on reducing barriers for music and arts related events, and
consideration to having one event policy that spans both public and private
property to help reduce red tape;
FURTHER THAT the report back should include any recommended
improvements and updates to the City’s Special Events Policy and any
associated guidelines.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 20
B. THAT Council direct staff to engage with the VPD to review opportunities to
reduce on-site policing requirements and costs borne by organizers while still
maintaining regard for public safety, including the possible increased use of
private security and/or other measures to combat the increasing safety costs
impacting the viability of public festivals and events.
C. THAT Council direct staff to convene an Advisory Task Force comprised of a
range of representatives and stakeholders from Vancouver’s Festival and Events
sector including small and large event organizers, cultural and music sector
stakeholders, and groups such as business improvement associations, in order
to help identify key challenges and opportunities with the current festivals and
events permitting processes, and that the engagement and feedback gathered
help inform the above-noted report back.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08718)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
10. For a Swimmable Vancouver
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Waters in and around Vancouver play an important role in the economic,
ecological and social well-being of Vancouver;
2. Aquatic programming promotes both mental and physical fitness as well as
safety and security in and around the water. A current lack of accredited guards
and limited aquatic access has prevented the next generation of children from
learning basic swim skills. While long term solutions are explored there are steps
we can take to immediately help relieve some of the issues;
3. Climate change is amplifying the negative impacts of biological and toxic
pollutions yet Vancouver has had success restoring creeks, rivers and habitat
that has brought salmon and herring back;
4. On May 30, 2017, Council passed a motion to establish a Waterfront Initiative for
major natural waterways including the Burrard Inlet, False Creek, Lost Lagoon,
the Fraser River and Trout Lake that engages First Nations, industry, senior
levels of government and adjacent municipalities, and the community to support

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 21
multiple goals: A Thriving Working Waterfront, Safe Accessible Waterfront
Recreation, Restoring Aquatic and Riparian Ecology and Traditional First
Nation’s Food Sources; and
5. On May 2nd, Council approved the recommendation in RTS # 11851 “Update on
Protecting Vancouver's Recreational Water Quality” which identified proposed
activities and by-law amendments to strengthen water quality protection.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to work with First Nations, Vancouver Coastal Health and the
Vancouver Park Board on a report back to council on the feasibility and financial costing
to restore sections of Coal Harbour, False Creek, Trout Lake, downtown waterfront, New
Brighton and the Fraser River to primary contact recreational water bodies by Vancouver
Coastal Health standards, which would allow more equitable access to natural aquatic
spaces throughout Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT staff report back on the creation of a Joe Fortes learn to swim
campaign to empower the next generation of swimmers Vancouver.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08719)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
11. Enabling the Next Generation of Vancouver Specials
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 20, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver currently has a housing affordability and climate crisis;
2. Buildings are a significant contributor to the climate crisis, as buildings and
construction account for 39% of global energy-related carbon dioxide emissions
and 21% of total GHG emissions in BC as per the 2020 CleanBC Climate
Change Accountability Report;
3. The CMHC 2022 Housing Supply Report highlighted the need for Vancouver to
innovate and diversify new housing to provide adequate new supply that is
affordable to a wider range of households, in terms of built-form,
location/geography and tenure;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 22
4. The Vancouver Heritage Foundation states that “The Vancouver Special is the
only house style that developed in Greater Vancouver from 1965-85, found
nowhere else. They were a response to a City of Vancouver by-law change to
address the need for more housing. As a result, the design of the Special
maximized the square footage of a home on the narrow lots of the city at a low
cost. This made them very widespread. The plans were particularly popular with
multi-generational households”;
5. The Vancouver Special Competition of 1985 highlighted the benefits of the
original “Vancouver Special” including short permit times (2 to 3 days), simplified
labour needs, standardized local materials, and shorter building timelines which
benefited tenants and small builders;
6. A catalogue of next generation Vancouver Special houses could be created with
pre-approved building forms that allow for an expedited permitting and
construction process – a repeatable house that meets net zero energy and
universal design standards, is constructed with wood and modular prefabrication
by way of social employment and local procurement and operates with 100%
renewable sources of energy; and
7. A pilot version of a next generation Vancouver Special could be designed by City
of Vancouver architects and designers for a backyard mini modular Accessory
Dwelling Unit (ADU), which BC Housing refers to as all forms of additional units
on residential (or even commercial/industrial) properties which could be scaled
up.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to report back on a pathway for an expedited building permit
and construction process for a new generation of Vancouver Specials (repeatable
building forms) from a modular Tiny Home (ADU) to a multifamily building that would
deliver diverse spaces for multigenerational living as easy as a single family home to
tackle the climate and affordability crisis head-on.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the following be added to the end:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to include consideration of a viable option
for a typical mid-block site for off-arterial apartment buildings as allowed under
the Secured Rental Policy (SRP), including consideration of current construction
costs, the cost and risk of the streamlined rezoning process and feasibility of
including below-market units.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08721)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08717) with Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 23
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
THAT Council direct staff to report back on a pathway for an expedited building permit
and construction process for a new generation of Vancouver Specials (repeatable
building forms) from a modular Tiny Home (ADU) to a multifamily building that would
deliver diverse spaces for multigenerational living as easy as a single family home to
tackle the climate and affordability crisis head-on;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to include consideration of a viable option for a
typical mid-block site for off-arterial apartment buildings as allowed under the Secured
Rental Policy (SRP), including consideration of current construction costs, the cost and
risk of the streamlined rezoning process and feasibility of including below-market units.
The Committee adjourned at 7:50 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JULY 20, 2022
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, July 20, 2022, at
7:50 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Deputy Mayor, Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick*
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, July 20, 2022
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Contract Award for Asphalt Milling Services
2. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Janitorial Services
3. 2030 Winters Games Bid Update
4. Commemorating Muslim Holidays
5. Backing the Class Action Lawsuit Against Oil Companies
6. Vancouver Hosting a C40 Climate Workshop for the Metro Vancouver Region
7. Advocating for the Requirement of Side Guards on Heavy Trucks in Urban Areas
8. Asking Staff to Put Money for a Seniors’ Planner in the Draft 2023 Budget
9. Making it Easier to Host Outdoor Festivals and Events in Vancouver
10. For a Swimmable Vancouver

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 2
11. Enabling the Next Generation of Vancouver Specials
Items 1 to 11
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of July 20, 2022, as contained in items 1 to 11, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
VARY THE AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council vary the agenda in order to deal with by-laws 1 to 67 next.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Note: For clarity the minutes are recorded in numerical order.
* * * * *
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
At the Council meeting on July 19, 2022, due to time constraints, Council referred the following
items to the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting as Unfinished Business.
1. Consequential Amendments to the Oakridge Design Guidelines
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the amended document entitled “Oakridge Design Guidelines”, previously
approved by Council, be adopted by Council for use by applicants and staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 3
2. Approval of Form of Development – 710 East 56th Avenue (Formerly 7280 Fraser
Street)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 710 E 56th Avenue
(also known as 7280 Fraser Street) be approved generally as illustrated in the
Development Application Number DP-2021-00333 prepared by Cornerstone Architecture
Inc., and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on
April 5, 2022, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve
design changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of
the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08729)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
3. Update to Various Land Use Documents to Align With Updated Zoning and
Development By-Law
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT if the by-law to amend the Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 Regarding
the Redesign of the By-law is enacted, the updates to the Balcony Enclosure Guidelines,
Bingo Hall Guidelines, Bridgehead Guidelines, Cabaret and Restaurant Guidelines,
Casino – Class 1 Guidelines, Church Guidelines, Community Care Facility – Class B
and Group Residence Guidelines, Drive-In Restaurant & Drive-Through Guidelines,
Enhanced Accessibility Guidelines, Garbage and Recycling Storage Amenity Design
Supplement, Guidelines for New Development Adjacent to Hotels and Rooming Houses
(With Windows or Lightwells Near Interior Property Lines), High-Density Housing for
Families with Children Guidelines, Interior Public Space Guidelines (DD, BCPED, C-3A,
C-5, C-6 & FC-1 Districts), Live-Work Use Guidelines, Lock-Off Unit Guidelines, Mini-
Storage Guidelines, Mural Guidelines, Norquay Village Character House and Retention
Guidelines, Pawnshop and Secondhand Store Guidelines, Plaza Design Guidelines,
Seniors Supportive or Assisted Housing Guidelines, Small Scale Pharmacy – Location
and Operation Guidelines, View Protection Guidelines, Water Wise Landscape
Guidelines, C-1 Residential Guidelines, C-2 Guidelines, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1
Guidelines, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1 Guidelines for Residential Rental Tenure Buildings,
Broadway/Commercial C-2C Guidelines, 605-645 West Eighth Avenue C-3A Guidelines,
Broadway-Arbutus C-3A and 2000 Block West 10th Avenue (North Side) Guidelines,
Broadway/Commercial C-3A Guidelines, Burrard Slopes C-3A Guidelines, Cambie
Street (East Side) C-3A Guidelines, Central Broadway C-3A Urban Design Guidelines,
Main Street C-3A Guidelines, North Burrard C-3A Guidelines, Arbutus C-7 and C-8
Guidelines, East False Creek FC-1 Guidelines, False Creek Flats Urban Design and
Development Policies and Guidelines for FC-2 – The Innovation Hub, Chinatown HA-1
Design Policies, Chinatown HA-1A Design Policies, Gastown HA-2 Design Guidelines,
Mount Pleasant Employment-Intensive Light Industrial Rezoning Policy and Guidelines

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 4
(I-1C), False Creek Flats Urban Design Policies and Guidelines for I-2 and I-3, False
Creek Flats Urban Design Policies and Guidelines for IC-3, M-1B Guidelines, MC-1 and
MC-2 Guidelines for Cedar Cottage, Hudson Street, East Hastings (Clark to Semlin) and
False Creek Flats (Malkin-Atlantic-Prior) Areas, Southlands RA-1 Guidelines, RM-1 and
RM-1N Guidelines, RM-3A, RM-4, and RM-4N Guidelines for Social Housing,
Britannia/Woodland RM-4 and RM-4N Guidelines, Broadway Station Area RM-4 & RM-
4N Guidelines, Fairview Heights RM-4 Guidelines, Hudson Street RM-4 Guidelines,
Joyce Street RM-4N Guidelines, Kitsilano RM-4 Guidelines, Marpole Triange RM-4
Guidelines, Mount Pleasant RM-4 and RM-4N Guidelines, West End RM-5, RM-5A, RM-
5B, RM-5C and RM-5D Guidelines, RM-6 West End Georgia/Alberni Guidelines, RM-7
and RM-7N Guidelines, RM-7AN Guidelines, RM-8 and RM-8N Guidelines, RM-8A and
RM-8AN Guidelines, RM-9, RM-9A, RM-9N, RM-9AN and RM-9B Guidelines, RM-10
and RM-10N Guidelines, RM-11 and RM-11N Guidelines, RM-12 Guidelines, Multiple
Conversion Dwelling Guidelines (RS-1A, RS-2, RS-7, RT-1 and RT-2 Districts),
Guidelines for Additions, Infill and Multiple Conversion Dwelling in Association with the
Retention of a Character House in an RS Zone, RS Zones Impermeable Materials Site
Coverage Guidelines for RS-1, RS-1A, RS-1B, RS-2, RS-3, RS-3A, RS-4, RS-5, RS-6,
and RS-7 Zones, Boundary and Tanner RS-1 Guidelines, RS-1 Caretaker Dwelling Unit
Guidelines, Charles/Adanac RS-1 Guidelines, Deering Island RS-1 Guidelines, Riverside
RS-1B Guidelines, RS-2 and RS-7 Infill and Multiple Dwelling Guidelines, RS-3, RS-3A
and RS-5 Design Guidelines, RS-3, RS-3A and RS-5 Design Workbook, RS-6 Design
Guidelines, RS-7 Design Guidelines, RT-2 Multiple Dwelling Guidelines,
Strathcona/Kiwassa RT-3 Guidelines, RT-4, RT-4A, RT-4N, RT-4AN, RT-5, RT-5N and
RT-6 Guidelines, Kitsilano RT-7 and RT-8 Guidelines, Kitsilano Point RT-9 Guidelines,
RT-10 and RT-10N Small House/Duplex Guidelines, and RT-11 and RT-11N Guidelines,
as set out in Appendix C of the report titled “Regulation Redesign – Draft Updated
Zoning and Development By-law - RTS #14897”, be adopted by Council and come into
force and take effect on November 14, 2022, for use by applicants and staff for
development applications in the relevant districts.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Approval of Form of Development – 3070 Kingsway
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 3070 Kingsway be
approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2020-00306, prepared by RH Architects Inc., and submitted electronically on June
30, 2021, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve
design changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of
the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 5
5. Approval of Form of Development – 981 Davie Street (Formerly 1190 Burrard
Street)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 981 Davie Street
(formerly 1190 Burrard Street) be approved generally as illustrated in the Development
Application Number DP-2021-00556, prepared by ZGF Architecture Inc., and submitted
electronically on June 20, 2022, provided that the Director of Planning may impose
conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the
development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
6. Approval of Form of Development – 1317 Richards Street and 508 Drake Street
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 508 Drake Street be
approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2021-
00569, prepared by DA Architects, and submitted electronically on February 3, 2022,
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design
changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or
adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
7. Approval of Form of Development – CD-1 (806 5189 Earles Street (Previously 2725-
2751 Kingsway
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as CD-1 (806) 5189
Earles Street (previously 2725-2751 Kingsway) be approved generally as illustrated in
the Development Application Number DP-2021-00689, prepared by GBL Architects, and
submitted electronically on April 4, 2022, provided that the Director of Planning may
impose conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either
the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08730 )
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 6
8. Approval of Form of Development – 550 West 13th Avenue (Formerly 546 West
13th Avenue)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 550 West 13th
Avenue (formerly known as 546 West 13th Avenue) be approved generally as illustrated
in the Development Application Number DP-2021-00922, prepared by GBL Architects
Inc., and submitted electronically on November 26, 2021, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
9. Approval of Form of Development – 1166 West Pender Street
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1166 West Pender
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2020-00345, prepared by Hariri Pontarini Architects, and submitted electronically on
May 20, 2022, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and
approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the development
character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
10. Approval of Form of Development – 1980 Foley Street
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1980 Foley Street be
approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2020-
00185, prepared by Francl Architecture and submitted electronically on May 5, 2022,
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design
changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or
adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 7
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Boyle be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business from meetings
on July 28, 2022 from 9:30 am to 1 pm.
FURTHER THAT Councillor Carr be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from meetings on July 29, 2022 from 9:30 am to 1 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Wiebe be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from meetings on July 29, 2022 from 9:30 am to 1 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Fry be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business from
meetings on July 29, 2022 from 9:30 am to 1 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. September Council Dates
Councillor De Genova enquired about whether staff will bring forward to changes to the
Procedural by-law for staff to allow Council to meet in September, the City Manager confirmed
that this by-law was approved and that Council can make requests to meet in September.
2. Public Safety Update
Councillor De Genova enquired about whether or not the Public Safety update had been
publically posted. The City Manager confirmed that it was circulated and posted as a memo.
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business from
meetings on July 27, 2022, from 6:30 pm to 10 pm;
FURTH THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on July 21, 2022, from 3:30 pm to 7 pm;

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 8
FURTHER THAT Councillor Boyle be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from meetings on July 27, 2022, from 2 pm to 4 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic
Business from meetings on July 27, 2022, from 5 pm to 10 pm .
FURTHER THAT Councillor Boyle be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from meetings on July 20, 2022 from 1 pm to 4 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Wiebe be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from meetings on July 20, 2022 from 1 pm to 4 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
Councillor De Genova advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to By-laws 5 - 28, 35,
and 41, and would therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Fry advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 33 and would
therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Wiebe advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 34 and would
therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Bligh advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 38 and would
therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Boyle advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 46 and would
therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillors De Genova and Wiebe advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to By-law
49 and would therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Dominato, and Kirby-Yung advised to have reviewed the proceedings
related to By-law 51 and would therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillors Boyle, De Genova, and Fry advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to
By-law 52 and would therefore be voting on the enactment.

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 9
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council enact the by-laws, except for those ineligible to vote as noted below listed
on the agenda for this meeting, as numbers, 1-27, inclusive, and authorize the Mayor
and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council enact the by-law, except for those ineligible to vote as noted below listed
on the agenda for this meeting, as number 28 and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to
sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council enact the by-laws, except for those ineligible to vote as noted below listed
on the agenda for this meeting, as numbers, 29-34, and authorize the Mayor and City
Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 35, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED (Vote No. 8722)
(Councillor Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 10
MOVED BY Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 36 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED (Vote No. 8723)
(Councillor Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 37 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 8724)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 38 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 8725)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 39 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 11
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number, 40, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED (Vote No. 8426)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Domanito
THAT Council enact the by-laws, except for those ineligible to vote as noted below listed
on the agenda for this meeting, as numbers, 41 to 44 inclusive, and authorize the Mayor
and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 8427)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council enact the by-law, except for those ineligible to vote as noted below listed
on the agenda for this meeting, as number 47 and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to
sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED (Vote No. 8428)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominita
THAT Council enact the by-laws, except for those ineligible to vote as noted below listed
on the agenda for this meeting, as numbers, 45, 46, and 48 to 67. , and authorize the
Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 12
1. A By-law to amend CD-1 (816) By-law No. 13352 (110 West 4th Avenue) (By-law No.
13443)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson ineligible to vote)
2. A By-law to amend CD-1 (276) By-law No. 6876 (1041 Southwest Marine Drive) (By-law
No. 13444)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson ineligible to vote)
3. A By-law to amend CD-1 (642) By-law No. 11658 (2133 Nanton Avenue) (formerly
4255 Arbutus Street) (By-law No. 13445)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson ineligible to vote)
4. A By-law to amend CD-1 (473) By-law No. 9733 (East Fraser Lands Non-High Street)
(By-law No. 13446)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson ineligible to vote)
5. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 Regarding the Redesign
of the By-law (By-law No. 13447)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
6. A By-law to amend the Building By-law No. 12511Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning
and Development By-law (By-law No. 13448)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
7. A By-law to amend the Crossing By-law No. 4644 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning
and Development By-law (By-law No. 13449)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
8. A By-law to amend the Downtown Official Development Plan By-law No. 4912
Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law(By-law No. 13450)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
9. A By-law to amend the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan
By-law No. 5532 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law(By-law
No. 13451)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
10. A By-law to amend the Electrical By-law No. 5563 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning
and Development By-law (By-law No. 13452)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
11. A By-law to amend the Fire By-law No. 12472 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning
and Development By-law (By-law No. 13453)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
12. A By-law to amend the Gas Fitting By-law No. 3507 Regarding the Redesign of the
Zoning and Development By-law(By-law No. 13454)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 13
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
13. A By-law to amend the Green Demolition By-law Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning
and Development By-law (By-law No. 13455)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
14. A By-law to amend the Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Official Development Plan
By-law No. 10041 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law (By-
law No. 13456)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
15. A By-law to amend the License By-law No. 4450 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning
and Development By-law (By-law No. 13457)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
16. A By-law to amend the Local Improvement Procedure By-law No. 3614 Regarding the
Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13458)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
17. A By-law to amend the Miscellaneous Fees By-law No. 5664 Regarding the Redesign of
the Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13459)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
18. A By-law to amend the Noise Control By-law No. 6555 Regarding the Redesign of the
Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13460)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
19. A By-law to amend the Parking By-law No. 6059 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning
and Development By-law (By-law No. 13461)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
20. A By-law to amend the Protection of Trees By-law No. 9958 Regarding the Redesign of
the Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13462)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
21. A By-law to amend the Southeast Granville Slopes Official Development Plan By-law
No. 5752 Regarding the Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No.
13463)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
22. A By-law to amend the Standards of Maintenance By-law No. 5462 Regarding the
Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13464)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
23. A By-law to amend the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 Regarding the Redesign of
the Zoning and Development By-law(By-law No. 13465)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
24. A By-law to amend the Street Distribution of Publications By-law No. 9350 Regarding the

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 14
Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law(By-law No. 13466)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
25. A By-law to amend the Subdivision By-law No. 5208 Regarding the Redesign of the
Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13467)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
26. A By-law to amend the Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066 Regarding the Redesign of the
Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13468)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
27. A By-law to amend the Water Works By-law No. 4848 Regarding the Redesign of the
Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13469)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
28. A By-law to amend the Zoning and Development Fee By-law No. 5585 Regarding the
Redesign of the Zoning and Development By-law (By-law No. 13470)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
29. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development Fee By-law No. 5585 regarding fees for
certain areas under the Broadway Plan (By-law No. 13471)
30. A By-law to establish greenhouse gas emission and heat energy intensity limits (By-law
No. 13472)
31. A By-law to amend Impounding By-law No. 3519 regarding fuel surcharge increase
(By-law No. 13473)
32. A By-law to amend Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066 regarding fuel surcharge increase
(By-law No. 13474)
33. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (8460 Ash Street and 8495 Cambie Street) (By-law No. 13475)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
34. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (3449-3479 West 41st Avenue and 5664 Collingwood Street) (By-law No. 13476)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)
35. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1405 East 15th Avenue and 3047-3071 Maddams Street) (By-law No. 13477)
36. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (24 East Broadway and 2520 Ontario Street) (By-law No. 13478)
37. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (564-570 West 49th Avenue) (By-law No. 13479)
38. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 15
CD-1 (1837-1863 East 11th Avenue and 2631-2685 Victoria Drive) (By-law No. 13480)
39. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (724 East 56th Avenue) (By-law No. 13481)
40. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (7280 Fraser Street) (By-law No. 13482)
41. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (277-291 West 42nd Avenue) (By-law No. 13483)
(Councillor Carr ineligible to vote)
42. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (319-359 West 49th Avenue) (By-law No. 13484)
43. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1166 West Pender Street) (By-law No. 13485)
44. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1317 Richards Street and 508 Drake Street) (By-law No. 13486)
45. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (443 Seymour Street) (By-law No. 13487)
46. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1059-1075 Nelson Street) (By-law No. 13488)
47. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1190 Burrard Street) (By-law No. 13489)
(Councillor De Genova ineligible to vote)
48. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (546 West 13th Avenue) (By-law No. 13490)
49. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8A (515 West 60th Avenue) (By-law No. 13491)
50. A By-law to amend CD-1 (1) By-law No. 3568 (650 West 41st Avenue (Oakridge Centre)
(By-law No. 13492)
51. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law no. 3575 to rezone an area to CD-1
(5590 Victoria Drive) (By-law No. 13493)
(Councillor Swanson ineligible to vote)
52. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 regarding 2022 Annual
Inflationary Adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions available in certain zoning
districts(By-law No. 13494)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible to vote)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 16
53. A By-law to amend Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law No. 9755 regarding
administrative and levy matters (By-law No. 13495)
54. A By-law to amend the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost Levy By-law No. 12183
regarding administrative and levy matters (By-law No. 13496)
55. A By-law to amend the Area Specific Development Costs Levy By-law No. 9418
regarding administrative and levy matters (By-law No. 13497)
56. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 239 East 16th Avenue (By-law No. 13498)
57. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2924 Venables Street (By-law No. 13499)
58. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1477 West Broadway (By-law No. 13500)
59. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No.11879 (720 Beatty Street and 701 Expo Boulevard)
(By-law No. 13501)
60. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (720 Beatty Street and 701 Expo
Boulevard) (By-law No. 13502)
61. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No.11879 (3532 East Hastings Street) (By-law No.
13503)
62. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (3532 East Hastings Street) (By-law
No. 13504)
63. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No.11879 (1015 East Hastings Street) (By-law No.
13505)
(Councillor Carr ineligible to vote)
64. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (1015 East Hastings Street) (By-law
No. 13506)
65. A By-law to amend License By-law No. 4450 regarding 2023 fee increases (By-law No.
13507)
66. A By-law to amend Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066 regarding 2023 fee increases and
amendments to courier bicycles (By-law No. 13508)
67. A By-law to amend Animal Control By-law No. 9150 regarding 2023 fee increases and a
new aggressive dog license fee (By-law No. 13509)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, July 20, 2022 17
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 9:15 pm.
* * * * *