REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MAY 18, 25, 26, 31 AND JUNE 9, 2022
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at 9:37 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
Subsequently, the meeting reconvened on Wednesday, May 25, 2022, at 3:04 pm, on
Thursday, May 26, 2022, at 3:04 pm, on Tuesday, May 31, 2022, at 3:06 pm, and on Thursday,
June 9, 2022, at 3:18 pm. This Council meeting was convened by electronic means as
authorized under the Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Adriane Carr, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence for Personal
Reasons on May 18, 2022, from 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm)
Councillor Christine Boyle*
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business on
May 18, 2022)
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Vice-Chair
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk (May 18 and 26, 2022)
Leslie Matthews, Chief External Relations and Protocol
(May 26, 2022)
Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk (May 25, 31 and June 9, 2022)
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator (May 18, 25, 26, and 31,
2022)
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator (June 9, 2022)
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Report 3, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Fry and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
1. Broadway Plan
April 27, 2022
Staff from Planning, Urban Design, and Sustainability, provided a presentation and along with
staff from Engineering Services, Special Projects Office, and Arts, Culture and Community
Services, responded to questions.
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT under Section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee allow a second
round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
On May 18, 2022, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee suspend the rules of Section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law in
order to allow an additional round of questions to staff after hearing from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Fry and Mayor Stewart absent for vote)
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, at 11:47 am, during questions to staff, Mayor Stewart rose on a point of order
under Section 5.4(b) of the Procedural By-law noting that Council members must only include
facts necessary to explain the question, without argument or opinion. Chair Carr cautioned
Councillors to not provide opinions during questions to staff.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 3
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, at 11:53 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past noon in order to complete the second
round of questions to staff on Item 1 – Broadway Plan.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, the Committee recessed at 12:10 pm and reconvened at 1:14 pm.
Subsequently, on May 18, 2022, during the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at
2:58 pm and reconvened at 3:15 pm.
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, at 4:54 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete hearing from
speaker 27.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle and Fry absent for vote)
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, the Committee recessed at 5:05 pm and reconvened at 6:11 pm.
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, at 8:08 pm, Mayor Stewart rose on a point of order under Section 7.8(c) of
the Procedure By-law regarding comments made about staff. Chair Carr cautioned speakers.
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, at 9:58 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 10:00 pm in order to reconvene in
Council.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova, Fry and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 4
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, during the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 10:02 pm and
reconvened on May 25, 2022 at 3:04 pm.
* * * * *
On May 25, 2022, during the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 4:58 pm and
reconvened on May 26, 2022, at 3:04 pm.
* * * * *
On May 26, 2022, during the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 4:56 pm and
reconvened at 6:06 pm.
* * * * *
Subsequently, on May 26, 2022, during the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at
9:58 pm and reconvened on May 31, 2022, at 3:06 pm.
* * * * *
On May 31, 2022, at 4:43 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT, subject to the conclusion of speakers and questions to staff, the Committee
postpone debate and decision on Item 1 - Broadway Plan, to the reconvening date of
Thursday, June 9, 2022, beginning at 3:00 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
On May 31, 2022, at 4:54 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 5:00 pm in order to hear from two in
person speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On May 31, 2022, during the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 5:20 pm and
reconvened at 6:25 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 5
On May 31, 2022, at 8:58 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Committee suspend the rules of Section 7.4A of the Procedure By-law, in
order to hear from four speakers who missed their second opportunity to speak.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for vote)
On May 31, 2022, at 9:44 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 10:00 pm in order to hear staff’s closing
remarks.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
* * * * *
On May 18, 25, 26, and 31, 2022, the Committee heard from 63 speakers in support, 76
speakers in opposition, and 20 speakers who spoke about other aspects of the report
recommendations.
* * * * *
On May 31, 2022, the Committee recessed at 9:58 pm and reconvened on June 9, 2022, at
3:18 pm.
* * * * *
On June 9, 2022, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT under Section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, the Committee allow a fourth round
of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Broadway Plan, generally as attached in Appendix A.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 6
B. THAT Council endorse the Broadway Plan Priority Implementation Strategy,
generally as attached in Appendix B.
C. THAT, subject to Council approval of the Broadway Plan, Council approve
amendments to the Development Contribution Expectations Policy in Areas
Undergoing Community Planning, generally as attached in Appendix C, to
remove application to the Broadway Plan area.
D. THAT, subject to Council approval of the Broadway Plan, Council approve
amendments to the Community Amenity Contributions Policy for Rezonings,
generally as attached in Appendix D, to include the Broadway Plan area as a
separate CAC application area.
E. THAT, subject to Council approval of the Broadway Plan, Council repeal the
Policy on Consideration of Rezoning Applications and Heritage Revitalization
Agreements during Broadway Planning Process that had been adopted by
Council on June 20, 2018, attached for reference as Appendix E;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to continue processing active rezoning
applications in the Broadway Plan area, which meet the conditions set out in the
Policy on Consideration of Rezoning Applications and Heritage Revitalization
Agreements during Broadway Planning Process, provided that, a complete
rezoning application must have been submitted prior to Council’s consideration of
the Broadway Plan.
F. THAT, subject to Council approval of the Broadway Plan, Council instruct the
Director of Legal Services to bring forward for enactment the necessary
amendments to the Zoning and Development Fee By-law to include fees for
certain areas of the Broadway Plan, generally as set out in Appendix F, to be
effective as soon as is practicable.
G. THAT, subject to Council approval of the Broadway Plan, Council repeal the
Kitsilano Neighbourhood Plan (1977); Fairview Slopes Policy Plan (1977);
Central Area Plan: Goals and Land Use Policy C-3A - Central Broadway (1991);
Arbutus Neighbourhood Policy Plan (1992); Broadway-Arbutus Policies (2004);
Burrard Slopes I-C Districts Interim Rezoning Policies and Guidelines (2007);
Mount Pleasant Community Plan (2010); Mount Pleasant Community Plan
Implementation Plan (2013);
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to continue processing active rezoning
applications in the Broadway Plan area, which meet the conditions set out in the
policies listed above, provided that, a complete rezoning application must have
been submitted prior to Council’s consideration of the Broadway Plan.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as H:
THAT Council direct staff to provide an expedited process for applicants with
multi-family residential rezoning applications, already approved by Council to
encourage applications to consider submitting new applications to the City of

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 7
Vancouver that better meet the aspirations and housing goals in The Broadway
Plan;
FURTHER THAT any expedited process for such applications not put ‘for-profit’
affordable housing in front of ‘non-profit’ or ‘non-market’ owned and operated
rental housing;
AND FURTHER THAT, applications with government funding, including BC
Housing and Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), be prioritized
in front of other applications.
lost
* * * * *
On June 9, 2022, at 4:35 pm, during discussion on the amendment, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the amendment above be withdrawn.
LOST HAVING NOT RECEIVED
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
(Mayor Stewart opposed)
* * * * *
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the amendment above be deleted and replaced with the following:
THAT Council direct staff to provide an expedited process for applicants that
have already obtained approvals to develop multi-family residential buildings
within the Broadway Plan area, where new applications are in alignment with the
Broadway Plan;
FURTHER THAT any expedited process for these applicants not be prioritized
over non-market housing projects.
LOST (Vote No. 08475)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, Wiebe and
Mayor Stewart opposed)
The amendment to the amendment having lost the amendment was put and LOST (Vote
No. 08476) with Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson,
Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as H:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 8
THAT Council direct staff to engage with BC Housing and Canada Mortgage and
Housing Corporation (CMHC) and report back on opportunities for Affordable
Home Ownership models within the Broadway Plan.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08477)
(Councillor Swanson opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as I:
THAT Council direct staff to make necessary consequential amendments to the
Broadway Plan to eliminate the two-tower per block rule in the Broadway Plan to
increase the supply of housing and affordability, including family housing, and
generate funding for more amenities in the community to advance the Broadway
Plan Public Benefits Strategy.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the amendment be deleted and replaced with the following:
THAT Council direct staff to make necessary consequential amendments to the
Broadway Plan, as attached in Appendix A, in order to allow consideration of
development proposals for tower buildings on sites with frontages less than 45.7
metres (150 ft.) at the discretion of the Director of Planning, where the proposal
meets the following criteria:
• Sites have a minimum frontage of 30.2 metres (99 ft.);
• The project satisfies the Plan’s built form and site design principles; and
• The applicant demonstrates that the development would reasonably
mitigate development limitations on adjacent properties;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to make necessary amendments to the
Broadway Plan to limit the number of towers to three towers per block face in the
‘centres’, except for the identified ‘large and unique sites’ and the
‘Uptown/Cambie North’ areas A and C; however, to achieve the Plan’s built form
and site design performance criteria, some block faces may not be able to
accommodate three towers. Where there are two or more towers on a block face
prior to adoption of the Broadway Plan, one additional tower would be
considered.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08478)
(Councillors Carr, Hardwick and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillor Swanson abstained from the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 08479) with Councillors Carr, Hardwick and Wiebe opposed, and
Councillor Swanson abstaining from the vote.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 9
* * * * *
On June 9, 2022, at 4:59 pm, during discussion on the amendment above, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete discussion on
the amendment currently on the floor of the Committee.
CARRIED
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
* * * * *
On June 9, 2022, the Committee recessed at 5:19 pm and reconvened at 6:25 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as J:
THAT Council direct staff to prepare necessary changes to the Broadway Plan to
include reference to the 2315 West 4th Avenue (Safeway site) under the
Rezoning Policy for Large Sustainable Sites, and clearly defined in the plan as
appropriate for future study and a comprehensive redevelopment;
FURTHER THAT these changes be brought forward to Council for consideration
before this site is referred to Public Hearing.
lost
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the amendment be amended by deleting the words “prepare necessary changes
to the Broadway Plan to include reference to the”, and replaced with “to report back on
options to consider the”.
not put
* * * * *
On June 9, 2022, during discussion on the amendment to the amendment, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the amendment above be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 10
The amendment to the amendment not having been put, the amendment was put and LOST
(Vote No. 08480) with Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung,
Swanson and Mayor Stewart opposed.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as J:
THAT Council direct staff to prepare necessary changes to the Broadway Plan to
allow development up to fourteen stories in the village areas for projects that
include heritage retention and the delivery of space serving arts and culture;
FURTHER THAT Council postpone voting on any part of this plan that may effect
the development of this major transit oriented development until after these
changes are brought forward to Council.
LOST (Vote No. 08481)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, Wiebe and
Mayor Stewart opposed)
On June 9, 2022, at 6:49 pm, during discussion on the amendment above, Councillor
Kirby-Yung rose on a point of order under Section 6.1(b) of the Procedural By-law noting that
Council members must not by words, tone, manner of speaking or gesticulation, express any
opinion or make any allegation that directly or indirectly reflects negatively upon the character of
any person or group of persons. Chair Carr reminded Councillors to keep the discussion to the
merits of the amendments.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the following be added as J:
THAT, subject to Council’s approval of the Broadway Plan, in order to ensure the
Plan delivers complete communities and access to the services and amenities
people need, Council direct staff to:
1. Report back to Council on opportunities to integrate the Accessible City
Strategy and the future phase 2 action plan into the Broadway Plan and
the Plan implementation;
2. Report back to Council on the reallocating a minimum of 11% of road
space within the planning area to non-car uses including parks, increased
tree canopy, blue-green natural features, active transportation including
the School Streets Program, mini-parks, play and rest areas, food
gardens, and areas to socialize;
3. Set a target for park provision at a minimum of 0.38ha/1000 residents
which is equivalent to a minimum of 11ha of new public park, dog parks
and green spaces (or approximately 4 new neighbourhood parks) in the
Broadway Plan area by 2052 including the reallocation of a minimum 11%
of neighbourhood streets, acquisition of new park land, transferring of City

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 11
land to permanent park space and in-kind park space delivered through
redevelopments; and
4. Align the recreation space target to 1.2 sf / resident as per the 2022 Park
Boards Community Centre Strategy which is equivalent to 70,00 sf of new
Community Centre space in or near Broadway Plan area, which could be
collocated with other civic facilities.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT subsections 3 and 4 be deleted and replaced with the following:
3. Report back after undertaking analysis and identifying an appropriate
community centre provision target for the Broadway Plan area, with
consideration for the fully assessed financial and economic impacts for
acquisition, development, operations and maintenance, and potential for
co-location with other civic facilities; and
4. Report back after undertaking analysis and identifying an appropriate
park or open space provision target for the Broadway Plan area, with
consideration for the fully assessed financial and economic impacts for
acquisition, development, operations and maintenance, and types of open
space not currently included in the Park Board’s park ratio calculation.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08482)
(Councillors Carr, De Genova, Hardwick and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillors Dominato and Fry abstained from the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08483).
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the following be added as K:
THAT Council commit to a future for the street of Broadway that increases safety
and livability for families, seniors, and people with disabilities and decreases
carbon emissions, and do so by directing staff to implement a car-lite Broadway,
reallocating surface road space to prioritize pedestrians, buses, access for
people with disabilities, safe active transportation and micro-mobility, emergency
vehicles, public space, and the movement of goods, and deprioritizing personal
private vehicles;
FURTHER THAT Council commit to building an AAA safe active transportation
lane along Broadway;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to review, analyze and report back on
recommended designs and funding sources for meeting the above goals.
amended

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 12
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the last two clauses be deleted and replaced with the following:
THAT Council direct staff to report back on different street design options for
accommodating safe active transportation (walking, cycling, wheeling) and micro
mobility options along Broadway, including consideration of an AAA active
transportation lane, wide sidewalks for pedestrians, space for micro mobility
devices and accessibility accommodations for persons with disabilities.
LOST (Vote No. 08484)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart
opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the amendment be amended by deleting the words “directing staff to implement a
car-lite Broadway”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08485)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
On June 9, 2022, at 7:54 pm, during discussion on the amendment as amended above,
Councillor De Genova rose on a point of order under Section 8.7(f) of the Procedural By-law
requesting for the Chair to rule whether or not the amendment is in order as staff have
confirmed this work is already underway. After consulting with staff, Chair Carr ruled the
amendment in order as the amendment is comprehensively put together specifically in regards
to the Broadway Plan and that is what makes it unique and not redundant.
The amendments to the amendment having either lost or carried, the amendment as amended
was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 08486) with Councillors De Genova and Hardwick opposed.
* * * * *
Prior to the introduction of the following three amendments, Chair Carr relinquished the Chair
to Vice-Chair Kirby-Yung in order to participate in debate and resumed as Chair afterwards.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as L:
THAT, given the projected population increase of 50,000 new residents within the
Broadway Plan area over 30 years, which may happen at a faster-than-expected
pace, Council direct staff to commence no later than Q2 2023 an updated Third
Party Operational Review of Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services, including

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 13
immediate and future staffing needs and new or expanded firehall facilities to
ensure the needed capacity to ensure public safety.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08487)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as M:
THAT Council direct staff to consult and work with the Musqueam, Squamish and
Tsleil-Waututh First Nations to understand their interest in visibly incorporating
their values, history and art into the public realm of the Broadway Plan area,
including on Broadway Great Street and, if there is interest, direct staff to
collaborate with the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh Nations on the
incorporation of their values, history and art into the public realm of the Broadway
Plan area, including the Broadway Great Street.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08488)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as N:
THAT Council direct staff to develop and report back to Council for Council
consideration, zoning changes within the plan area specifically for non-market
affordable housing including co-ops, social, supportive and non-profit housing
and that this work be included in the Priority Implementation Strategy contained
in Appendix B so that the necessary scoping and analysis could be reported back
to Council and completed through plan implementation;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council on options for
deepening affordability as part of the Broadway Plan implementation work and as
part of the citywide work to refresh housing targets.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote no. 08489)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT A be amended as follows by adding the following to the end:
“with the following amendment:
i. That Appendix A, page 283, section entitled “Exceptions and Notes”, in
regards to solar access policies, be amended by adding the following:
“New buildings should minimize shadowing impacts on independent
school yards, particularly during school hours.”
CARRIED (Vote No. 08490)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillors Boyle and Swanson abstained from the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 14
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added as O:
That Council direct staff to report back in Q3 2023 on options for a fixed rate
CAC framework for the Broadway Plan.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08491)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added as P:
THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back on additional incentives to
advance:
• wood including mass timber in construction; and
• zero emissions standards including Passive House;
Consideration should be given to amending the Vancouver Building By-law to
allow mass timber construction exceeding 12 stories outright, relaxation of zoning
requirements, increases in density, and streamlining permit requirements.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08492)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the following be added as Q:
THAT Council request the Mayor write the Minister of Education and the Minister
of Finance regarding the critical need to prioritize the funding of new and
expanded schools along the Broadway Corridor that will meet the need of the
proposed density of the Broadway Plan, including a firm commitment to fund
Olympic Village school, and other schools in the vicinity;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to consult with the Province and VSB to help
ensure that a plan is developed to deliver schools that will meet the need of the
proposed density in the Broadway Plan including but not limited to:
a. Sharing data about where and how much family housing is being
projected for development within the Broadway Plan;
b. Clearly identifying schools for expansion and sites for new schools in the
Broadway plan area to address both current needs and to meet expected
population growth; and
c. Planning for the funding of these new schools well in advance by,
including exploring the development of an MOU’s with the Ministry of
Education early so that schools are adequately funded and delivered in a
timely manner.
carried

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 15
The amendment was put and separated for the vote with clauses ‘THAT’ and ‘FURTHER THAT
(a) and (b)’ having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08493) and clause ‘FURTHER THAT
(c)’ having CARRIED (Vote No. 08494) with Councillor De Genova opposed.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be added R:
THAT in recognition of the importance of public amenities to support growth and
livability, particularly the provision of parks and green space, Council direct staff
to report back bi-annually on the status of anticipated community amenity
contributions from the Broadway Plan area, as well as opportunities for further
refinement of the public amenities strategy that could support an increase in
delivery of park and green space and community facilities above the projections
included in the Plan.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08495)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
On June 9, 2022, at 9:03 pm, during discussion on the amendment above, Councillor De
Genova rose on a point of order under Section 8.7(f) of the Procedural By-law requesting for the
Chair to rule whether or not the amendment is in order as staff have confirmed that a report
back is expected on parks and amenities. After consulting with staff, Chair Carr ruled the
amendment in order as there is a difference between a one-time report and a regular bi-annual
report.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT A be amended as follows by adding the following to the end:
“with the following amendment:
ii. That Appendix A, section 12.1.3, entitled “Right of First Refusal”, be
amended by adding the words “or at the tenant’s current rent, whichever
is less”, to the end, to read as follows:
Offer the right of first refusal to existing tenants to return to a new rental
unit at a 20% discount to city-wide average market rents by unit type for
the City of Vancouver as published annually by the Canada Mortgage and
Housing Corporation (CMHC) in the Rental Market Report, or at the
tenant’s current rent, whichever is less.”;
FURTHER THAT the following be added as S:
THAT further to Appendix A, section 12.1.9, Council direct staff to conduct a
robust education and awareness campaign to ensure renters in the Broadway
Plan area understand the enhanced protections they are entitled to, and further
that staff explore creating dedicated liaisons for tenants in the area through the
Renters Centre;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 16
AND FURTHER THAT the following be added T:
THAT Council request that the Mayor write the Premier requesting assistance
from his government concerning current provincial funding opportunities and
regulatory adjustments in order to expedite the approval and permitting of rental
and social housing that substantially comply with the policies contained within the
Broadway Plan.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT A be amended by adding the following as (iii):
iii. That Appendix A, section 12.1.3, entitled “Right of First Refusal”, be
amended by adding the following separate paragraph at the end:
“Further, require that all tenants of buildings being demolished for
redevelopment are offered units appropriate for them as defined by
CMHC occupancy standards with consideration for tenant preferences
and additional needs as identified in the Tenant Needs Assessment at
their same rent or provided with a rent top up option as per the policy
before issuing a demolition permit.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08496)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08497).
* * * * *
On June 9, 2022, at 9:35 pm, it was
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 10 pm in order to complete debate and
decision on Item 1 – Broadway Plan.
LOST HAVING NOT RECEIVED
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
(Councillors De Genova and Hardwick opposed)
Subsequently, on June 9, 2022, at 9:36 pm, it was
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the Committee adjourn the meeting at 10 pm, and refer the remaining debate and
decision on Item 1 – Broadway Plan, to the Council meeting immediately following the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 22, 2022.
amended

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 17
AMENDMENT MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the motion be amended by deleting the words “Council meeting immediately
following the”, and that the words “as the first order of business”, be added to the end, to
read as follows:
THAT the Committee adjourn the meeting at 10 pm, and refer the remaining
debate and decision on Item 1 – Broadway Plan, to the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 22, 2022, as the first order of
business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
For clarity, the remaining discussion and final decision on Item 1 – Broadway Plan, will be
available in the meeting minutes of the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on June 22, 2022.
* * * * *
2. Establishing a Friendship City Program in the City of Vancouver - Withdrawn
April 5, 2022
3. Provision of Wireline Services
April 21, 2022
On May 18, 2022, it was adopted on consent,
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Technology Services, City’s Director of Legal Services, and
the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into a contract with TELUS
Communications Inc., for the Provision of Wireline Services, for a term of three
(3) years, with the option to extend for six (6) additional one (1) year terms, with
an estimated contract value of $2,973,108, plus applicable taxes over the initial
three (3)-year term, to be funded through existing operating budgets.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, the Chief Procurement Officer and the
Chief Technology Officer be authorized to execute on behalf of the City the
contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A and B above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 08396)
(Councillor Fry absent for vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022 18
The Committee adjourned on June 9, 2022, at 9:48 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MAY 18, AND JUNE 9, 2022
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at
9:59 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee. Subsequently, the meeting reconvened on Thursday, June 9, 2022, at 9:49 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business on
May 18, 2022)
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk (May 18, 2022)
Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk (June 9, 2022)
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator (May 18, 2022)
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator (June 9, 2022)
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
May 18, 2022
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its item of business included:
3. Provision of Wireline Services

Council
Minutes, May 18, and June 9, 2022 2
Item 3
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of May 18, 2022, as contained in item 3, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova, Fry, and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
* * * * *
On May 18, 2022, Council recessed at 10:00 pm and reconvened on June 9, 2022, at 9:49 pm.
* * * * *
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its item of business included:
1. Broadway Plan
Item 1
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities at
its meeting of May 18, 25, 26, 31, and June 9, 2022, as contained in item 1 be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council
Minutes, May 18, and June 9, 2022 3
The Council adjourned on June 9, 2022, at 9:50 pm.
* * * * *