SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
April 28 and May 10, 2022
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday,
April 28, 2022, at 6:03 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purposes of
hearing from speakers on public safety and violent crime citywide. Subsequently, the meeting
recessed and reconvened on Tuesday, May 10, 2022, at 3:01 pm. This Special Council meeting
was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr (May 10, 2022 - Leave of Absence for
Civic Business)
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. Public Safety and Violent Crime Citywide
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager, presented an introduction and a brief outline to address the
actionable items as requested to staff in the motion entitled “Prioritizing Public Safety,” that was
approved by Council on March 30, 2022, in relation to public safety and violent crime citywide.
The following sectors of the City Leadership Team provided a combined presentation:

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, April 28 and May 10, 2022 2
Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services, presented an overview
of the Homelessness Outreach Team and related Social Policy.
Margaret Wittgens, Deputy General Manager, Strategy and Planning, Engineering Services,
presented an overview on Streets and Sanitation.
Adam Palmer, Chief Constable, Vancouver Police Department, presented an overview of the
department’s work and response in relation to violent crime.
Amit Gandha, Director of Parks, Parks & Recreation, and Betty Lepps, Director of Urban
Relationships, Parks & Recreation, presented an overview on the approaches undertaken by
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation in relation to prioritizing public safety.
* * * * *
On April 28, 2022, at 6:44 pm, during the staff presentation, the Mayor reminded the public
gallery to be respectful and refrain from interrupting speakers that are addressing Council.
* * * * *
Following the staff presentation, Paul Mochrie, City Manager, Karen Levitt, Deputy City
Manager, MaryClare Zak, Managing Director, Social Policy & Projects Division, Arts, Culture
and Community Services, Taryn Scollard, Deputy General Manager, Operations & Safety,
Engineering Services, Howard Chow, Deputy Chief Constable, Vancouver Police Department,
Fiona Wilson, Deputy Chief Constable, Vancouver Police Department, along with the above-
noted members of the City Leadership Team, responded to questions:
* * * * *
On April 28, 2022, at 7:15 pm, during questions to staff it was,
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT under section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, Council ask a second round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On April 28, 2022, following questions to staff, Council heard from public speakers along with
the following invited speakers as requested in the motion entitled “Prioritizing Public Safety,”
that was approved by Council on March 30, 2022:

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, April 28 and May 10, 2022 3
• Vancouver Coastal Health
• Greater Vancouver Board of Trade
• Destination Vancouver
• Vancouver Chinatown Merchants Association
• Strathcona Business Improvement Association
• Collingwood Community Policing Centre
• West End Business Improvement Association
• Union Gospel Mission
• Commercial Drive Business Improvement Association
On April 28, 2022, Council heard from nine speakers who spoke in relation to their work
experiences, projects and its progress along with personal experiences and concerns regarding
the topic of public safety and violent crime citywide.
* * * * *
On April 28, 2022, during the hearing of speakers, Council recessed at 8:57 pm and reconvened
at 9:09 pm.
Subsequently, at 9:58 pm, during the hearing of speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be recessed and reconvened on Tuesday, May 10, 2022 at 3 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
On April 28, 2022, Council recessed at 9:59 pm and reconvened on May 10, 2022 at 3:01 pm.
* * * * *
On May 10, 2022, Council continued hearing from speakers.
* * * * *
On May 10, 2022, at 4:53 pm, during the hearing of speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete hearing from the
current speaker.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
On May 10, 2022, Council recessed at 5:07 pm and reconvened at 6:14 pm.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, April 28 and May 10, 2022 4
* * * * *
On May 10, 2022, Council heard from the remaining 27 speakers including those that were
available but had previously missed their turn to speak. Speakers spoke in relation to their work
experiences, projects and its progress along with personal experiences and concerns regarding
the topic of public safety and violent crime citywide.
* * * * *
For clarity, the positions of speakers are not listed in the minutes as there are no report
recommendations being spoken to. The purpose of this Special Council meeting is to hear from
speakers on public safety and violent crime citywide; no decision is required of Council at this
meeting.
Per the motion entitled “Prioritizing Public Safety,” that was approved by Council on
March 30, 2022, a report back with recommendations from staff is anticipated to be presented to
Council in June 2022 with considerations of the input arising from this Special Council meeting.
* * * * *
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
On May 10, 2022, the Special Council meeting adjourned at 8:29 pm.
* * * * *