REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
APRIL 27, 2022
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, April 27, 2022, at 9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry, Vice-Chair* (Leave of Absence for civic
business from 9:30 am to 10:30 am)
Councillor Colleen Hardwick* (Leave of Absence for civic
business from 9:30 am to 1 pm)
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung* (Leave of Absence for civic
business from 6:30 pm to 8 pm)
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt items 4 and 5 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. Supporting the Innovation Economy (Member’s Motion B.7)
At the Council meeting on April 12, 2022, Council referred this item to the Standing Committee
on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 13, 2022, in order to hear from speakers,
followed by debate and decision. Subsequently, due to time constraints, Council referred this
item to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on April 27, 2022.
The Committee heard from seven speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is recognized as a global hub for innovation, in particular in the
sectors of cleantech, visual effects, virtual reality, biotech, augmented reality,
Web3, blockchain, NFT technology, video gaming, Cloud as a Service, and
applied artificial intelligence. Vancouver has been recently acknowledged as the
second fastest growing innovation hub in North America according to CBRE. An
unprecedented 14 unicorns (private companies valued over $1B) have been
based in Vancouver over the past 2 years. These unicorns include Trulioo
($2.1B), Clio ($2B), Dapper Labs ($7.6B), GeoComply ($1B), among others.
Here is a report on Six Stories In 2021 That Demonstrated Vancouver’s Web3
Emergence;
2. Vancouver is host to innovation forums, hubs and coalitions, many of which the
Vancouver Economic Commission (VEC) is active participants and/or partners
with including:
a. Metro Vancouver Zero Emissions Innovation Centre – the Vancouver
chapter of the Low Carbon Cities Canada initiative, which now includes
ZEBx
b. BC’s Centre for Innovation and Clean Energy – supports scaling clean
energy solutions
c. Vancouver Maritime Centre for Climate – supports decarbonizing
maritime shipping and marine vessels
d. SMART Biofuels consortium at UBC – supports decarbonizing long haul
transportation (aviation, trucking, rail & maritime)
e. Foresight Canada – seeks to be a cleantech accelerator
f. Share Reuse Repair Initiative – supports the transition to a Circular
Economy

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 3
g. Circular Food innovation Lab - supports solutions to eliminate avoidable
food waste across Vancouver’s food supply chain
h. Frontier Collective - supports early stage infrastructure, economic
development and investment attraction;
3. The VEC has two signature programs focused on growing the local cleantech
and sustainable innovation business community:
a. Project Greenlight
i. Supports innovators to gain access to municipal and institutional
assets and infrastructure to demonstrate or pilot test their
sustainability-related solutions i.e. cleantech, clean energy,
“smart-city” and other more;
ii. Helps innovators commercialize their green solutions faster, and get
critical market feedback from member-institutions (e.g. City of
Vancouver, Translink, Fortis, etc.) who in turn can better understand
solutions to help address climate change;
b. The Angels for Climate Solutions Program
i. The innovation necessary to meet our climate goals;
ii. Accepted 20 climate-tech start-ups from a pool of 56 applicants, and
21 angel investors, 9 of whom were accredited and 12 non-accredited
with an equity pool of $122,000; and
iii. One of the largest innovation-centered collaborations in our
ecosystem, achieving a near 50% representation of visible minorities
in both investor and start-up cohorts.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct the Vancouver Economic
Commission (VEC) to provide a high level overview and profile to Council of the
local innovation ecosystem, including examples of key innovation organizations,
number of jobs, capital investment (subject to available data), key strengths,
issues and opportunities for local innovation sectors, and examples of how local
innovation can further climate action, equity and diversity priorities;
FURTHER THAT the staff at VEC host a roundtable with key leaders in the local
innovation ecosystem to gather further industry input.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the main motion be struck and insert the following:
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back following consultation within the
local innovation ecosystem on how the City within its role and jurisdiction,

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 4
can better support these important sectors by reducing impediments and
barriers in permitting, land use and regulation, to further a vibrant
innovation, tech and climate friendly economy.
B. THAT this work include engagement with the Vancouver Economic
Commission and leaders in the local tech (including AR, VR,
metaverse) and innovation ecosystem to help inform recommendations.
withdrawn
At 10:48 am, during debate, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the previous amendment be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be struck:
FURTHER THAT the staff at VEC host a roundtable with key leaders in the local
innovation ecosystem to gather further industry input;
FURTHER THAT the following be added to the end of A:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back following consultation within
the local innovation ecosystem on how the City within its role and jurisdiction, can
better support these important sectors by reducing impediments and barriers in
permitting, land use and regulation, to further a vibrant innovation, tech and
climate friendly economy;
AND FURTHER THAT the following be added as B:
THAT this work include engagement with the Vancouver Economic Commission
and leaders in the local tech (including AR, VR, metaverse) and innovation
ecosystem to help inform recommendations.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08319)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08320).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct the Vancouver Economic Commission (VEC) to provide a
high level overview and profile to Council of the local innovation ecosystem,
including examples of key innovation organizations, number of jobs, capital
investment (subject to available data), key strengths, issues and opportunities for

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 5
local innovation sectors, and examples of how local innovation can further
climate action, equity and diversity priorities;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back following consultation within
the local innovation ecosystem on how the City within its role and jurisdiction, can
better support these important sectors by reducing impediments and barriers in
permitting, land use and regulation, to further a vibrant innovation, tech and
climate friendly economy.
B. THAT this work include engagement with the Vancouver Economic Commission
and leaders in the local tech (including AR, VR, metaverse) and innovation
ecosystem to help inform recommendations
2. Enabling a Recovery Community Centre in the City of Vancouver (Member’s
Motion B.8)
At the Council meeting on April 12, 2022, Council referred this item to the Standing Committee
on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 13, 2022, in order to hear from speakers,
followed by debate and decision. Subsequently, due to time constraints, Council referred this
item to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on April 27, 2022.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
At 11:49 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 12 pm in order to complete item 2 on the
agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. On April 14, 2016, then Provincial Health Officer, Dr. Perry Kendall, declared a
public health emergency under the Public Health Act due to the significant rise in
opioid-related overdose deaths reported in B.C.;
2. The City of Vancouver has likewise signalled a state of emergency with respect
to the unregulated, contaminated drug supply and the associated opioid-related
overdose deaths. In July 2019, Vancouver City Council approved the Safe

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 6
Supply Statement, created in collaboration with the Vancouver Community Action
Team, whereby the City will share with other government partners, including the
Government of Canada, and advocate for access to a safe, regulated drug
supply;
3. Under the Public Health Act, real-time information can be collected, reported, and
analyzed across the health system in a public health emergency, to immediately
identify where risks are arising and to take proactive action to warn and protect
people who use drugs;
4. Almost 7,000 British Columbians have died from the Province’s poisoned,
unregulated drug supply since the overdose public health emergency was
declared on April 14, 2016. Moreover, subsequent to the declaration of the
COVID-19 public health emergency on March 17, 2020, the rate of overdose
events and illicit drug toxicity deaths have increased and surpassed historic
highs;
5. In May 2017, the Federation of Canadian Municipalities’ (FCM) Big-City Mayors’
Caucus launched a Task Force on the Opioid Crisis to share best practices and
save lives. The Task Force put forward a series of comprehensive
recommendations to the federal government for a coordinated, nation-wide
action by all orders of government, including action on all four pillars of Canada’s
drug strategy: i.e., harm reduction, treatment, prevention, and enforcement;
6. Among the recommendations of the FCM Mayors’ Task Force on the Opioid
Crisis, the recommendations related to treatment include a recommendation for
zero delays for getting into comprehensive treatment programs;
7. 2021 was the deadliest year for illicit-drug overdoses in B.C., with the highest
ever number of deaths in a single month recorded in the month of October (201
deaths) and 1,782 deaths in the first ten months of 2021, surpassing the 1,765
deaths recorded in all of 2020;
8. It is abundantly clear that urgent action continues to be required on multiple
levels to prevent further deaths from overdoses and the poisoned drug supply.
This urgent action includes advocating for a safe supply: But it also calls for
stronger and more effective supports for people seeking treatment or recovery
options specific to their chosen path to wellness, including supports for those
persons who choose harm reduction or who are not ready to make the recovery
step;
9. There are many known gaps in the system when it comes to treatment options,
and people who are ready for recovery typically face barriers to accessing the
right treatment option at the right moment in time. Treatment options are not
always available in-the-moment when a person is ready to pursue recovery, and
this often leads to relapses, additional overdoses and deaths, and a missed
opportunity;
10. Among the most persistent treatment gap is the gap between the moment in time
that a person is ready to enter into recovery and the corresponding availability of

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 7
an appropriate treatment path for them to access. Experts point to this gap as
perhaps the most crucial gap in the system that needs to be addressed in order
for more people to find their path to recovery in ways that reflect autonomy,
choice, and real time response;
11. The Recovery Coach model has demonstrated enormous potential to
successfully fill the gap between the time that a person is ready to enter into
recovery and the time that the most effective treatment path and option is
available for them to pursue. This gap period is frequently cited as the stumbling
block to successful recovery. This includes those whose path the recovery
includes access to a safe supply;
12. The Recovery Coach model is based on trained paraprofessionals who use
theoretically sound, evidence-based knowledge and skills to empower people
with substance use or addiction issues to enable them to overcome barriers and
build “recovery capital” to enter recovery and progress along their chosen
journeys. Recovery Coaches bridge gaps in the system, connecting people to the
types of treatment and support they need, and linking them with resources and
recovery support networks in their communities;
13. The Recovery Coach model has great potential for our city in the face of the
overdose crisis and poisoned drug supply, and Vancouver Coastal Health has
identified the need for a non-medicalized Recovery Community Center that can
offer people in-the-moment access to recovery coaches and help-centered
approaches; and
14. The City of Vancouver has infrastructure resources and jurisdictional powers
such as zoning, as well as access to City-owned sites and buildings, and the
ability to expedite and otherwise enable facility improvements and permitting that
could serve to support the prompt establishment of a Recovery Community
Center in the city. It is therefore incumbent upon the City and City Council to
make these resources available and to use these jurisdictional powers to prevent
overdose and opioid-related deaths and better support individual paths to
recovery.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council endorse the need to establish a Recovery Community Centre
space in the city and thereby direct staff to work with Vancouver Coastal Health
and other relevant partners to enable the rapid establishment of a Recovery
Community Centre in the city in as timely a manner as possible given the dire,
life-critical nature of the public health emergency faced by our city and its people;
FURTHER THAT Council specifically direct and empower the City’s
Development, Buildings, and Licensing staff, Real Estate and Facilities
Management Services staff, and the City’s Arts, Culture, and Community
Services staff to work in close coordination to identify and facilitate any zoning
and/or related permitting requirements and/or adjustments that may be required,
as well as any necessary site improvements requiring consideration, on an
expedited basis to achieve the rapid establishment of a Recovery Community

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 8
Center in the city, including explorations of the potential use and/or access to
appropriate City-owned sites.
B. THAT, pursuant to the direction to staff in clause “A” above – staff shall advise
Council of any actions required on the part of Council that may be necessary to
accomplish the Recovery Community Center objectives noted in clause “A”
above.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back with recommendations for policies,
protocols, and procedures by the start of Q4 that would assign the highest priority
to, and otherwise expedite, permit applications and approval processes that
specifically relate to life-critical facilities and/or amenities that respond to the
overdose crisis and related actions, with the aim being to ensure that the
establishment of facilities and/or amenities of this nature are not delayed or
otherwise bottlenecked behind by applications and/or approval processes that do
not, by their inherent nature, respond directly to the life-critical needs of the
overdose crisis.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08321)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 11:56 am and reconvened at 1:02 pm.
* * * * *
3. 2021 Housing Progress Report, Housing Needs Report, and Update on Housing
Targets Refresh
April 6, 2022
Staff from Housing Policy provided a presentation and responded to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT under section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law, Council ask a second round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 9
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the recommendations, two speakers
opposed to the recommendations, and three speakers who spoke about other aspects of the
recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive for information the 2021 Housing Progress Report, as
contained in Appendix A of the Report dated April 6, 2022, entitled “2021
Housing Progress Report, Housing Needs Report, and Update on Housing
Targets Refresh”.
B. THAT Council receive for information the City of Vancouver Housing Needs
Report, as contained in Appendix B of the Report dated April 6, 2022, entitled
“2021 Housing Progress Report, Housing Needs Report, and Update on Housing
Targets Refresh”, in order to satisfy the City’s Housing Needs Report
requirement specified in the Vancouver Charter and the Vancouver Housing
Needs Report Regulation.
C. THAT Council direct Staff to continue work on re-freshing the Housing Vancouver
10-year targets, including additional consultation to test and refine initial concepts
as well as to incorporate the most recent 2021 Census data as it becomes
available, and report back in 2023 with finalized targets for Council adoption.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as D:
THAT Council direct staff to consider expanding the expedited process in the
Social Housing or Rental Tenure (SHORT) Program to affordable rental housing
that is not classified as social housing and report back with an update in 2023.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08322)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT staff report back as soon as possible, with a plan, including budget,
timeline and options, including asks to partners and what the city can contribute,
that could actually meet the housing and affordability needs of the 86,000
Vancouver households in housing need.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08323)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 10
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT in C., the following words be added “June 2022 to address currently released
Census data, and again in” before the year, “2023”.
withdrawn
At 4:32 pm, during debate, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the previous amendment be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The amendments having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08324) with Councillor Hardwick abstaining from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council receive for information the 2021 Housing Progress Report, as
contained in Appendix A of the Report dated April 6, 2022, entitled "2021
Housing Progress Report, Housing Needs Report and Update on Housing
Targets Refresh”.
B. THAT Council receive for information the City of Vancouver Housing Needs
Report, as contained in Appendix B of the Report dated April 6, 2022, entitled
"2021 Housing Progress Report, Housing Needs Report and Update on Housing
Targets Refresh”, in order to satisfy the City’s Housing Needs Report
requirement specified in the Vancouver Charter and the Vancouver Housing
Needs Report Regulation.
C. THAT Council direct Staff to continue work on re-freshing the Housing Vancouver
10-year targets, including additional consultation to test and refine initial concepts
as well as to incorporate the most recent 2021 Census data as it becomes
available, and report back in 2023 with finalized targets for Council adoption.
D. THAT Council direct staff to consider expanding the expedited process in the
Social Housing or Rental Tenure (SHORT) Program to affordable rental housing
that is not classified as social housing and report back with an update in 2023.
E. That staff report back as soon as possible, with a plan, including budget, timeline
and options, including asks to partners and what the city can contribute, that
could actually meet the housing and affordability needs of the 86,000 Vancouver
households in housing need.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 11
4. Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board – Annual Report 2021
February 24, 2022
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the 2021 Annual Report of Vancouver Heritage
Foundation attached as Appendix A of the Report dated February 24, 2022,
entitled “Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board – Annual Report 2021”.
B. THAT Council approve payment of a grant to Vancouver Heritage Foundation in
the amount of $140,771 to be used as operating funds for the third year of the
three-year operating agreement (2020 - 2022), source of funding is the 2022
Operating Budget.
C. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to draft and execute a
new three-year operating agreement for 2023, 2024 and 2025 at a base annual
cost of $143,586 plus inflationary increases, for the Vancouver Heritage
Foundation’s services, and that the new operating agreement be to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services and the City Manager. Funding for
2023 - 2025 to be addressed as part of the annual operating budget process.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 08326)
5. Environmental Consulting Services
April 6, 2022
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, City’s Director of
Legal Services, and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into
contracts, for providing environmental assessment and remediation consulting
services with:
• SLR Consulting (Canada) Ltd.
• SNC Lavalin
• Pottinger Gaherty Environmental Consultants Ltd.
• Active Earth Engineering Ltd.
• AECOM Canada Ltd.
• Core 6 Environmental Ltd.
• Arcadis Canada Inc.
• Thurber Engineering Ltd.
• Keystone Environmental Ltd.
for a term of three (3) years, with an estimated contract value of $2,650,000,
plus applicable taxes over the initial three year term, to be funded through
Annual Capital Expenditure Budget, the Multi-Year Capital Budget and the
Operating Budget subject to Council approval.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 12
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management be authorized to execute on
behalf of the City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A and B above and C.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 08327)
6. Catalysing Planning for the Future of Central Waterfront District (Member’s Motion
B.2)
At the Council meeting on April 26, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on April 27, 2022, for debate and decision.
* * * * *
At 4:54 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete item 6 on the
agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver’s Central Waterfront is a natural focal point for the city: with
commanding views of the ocean and mountains; where the central business
district and historic old city meet; a gateway to Vancouver for hundreds of
thousands of cruise ships and convention centre tourists; and the busiest
transportation hub in the region with the convergence of air, marine and rail
transportation alongside over 18 million public transit passengers a year
travelling by SeaBus, Skytrain, and the West Coast Express;
2. From its incarnation as the Pacific terminus for the CPR transcontinental railway
in the early twentieth century, the Central Waterfront district has been
contemplated for massive urban renewal and planning around transportation by
sea and by rail. The 1960s Project 200 waterfront freeway plan contemplated an
automobile-oriented approach that was ultimately supplanted with the
introduction of the SeaBus in the 1970s; with further transformational change in
1986 and the introduction of the SkyTrain Expo line and Canada Place, followed

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 13
by the Helijet and seaplane terminals, the West Coast Express, and the Canada
Line in later decades;
3. Today, the Central Waterfront planning area involves a number of landowners
and interests including the Vancouver Fraser Port Authority (Port of Vancouver),
TransLink, PavCo/Vancouver Convention Centre, CP Rail, GHD Equity Holdings,
Cadillac-Fairview, and across all levels of government including the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh host nations, Federal government, Provincial
government, Board of Parks and Recreations, and City of Vancouver;
4. In 1979, the City of Vancouver approved the Central Waterfront Official
Development Plan.1 In reviewing stakeholder positions both port and rail
functions indicated an interest in co-existing and co-operating with the City’s
objectives, summarized thus:
“The basic objectives of the City in planning the Central Waterfront are to make
the area more accessible and enjoyable to the people of Vancouver while
maintaining a viable port operation and, to ensure future development of the area
is compatible with the adjacent Downtown and Gastown. The introduction of
urban uses such as commercial, recreational and light industrial in the Central
Waterfront, integrated with essential port and rail operations would be most
appropriate to achieve these objectives.”
5. In July 2009, Council endorsed the Central Waterfront Hub Framework 2 to
supplement existing policy and guide future planning for the area, with direction
for staff to develop a strategy for seeking the support and involvement of senior
levels of government, area landowners, and other stakeholders for
implementation of the Waterfront Hub framework;
6. In October 2017, Council approved the City Core 2050 and Related Planning
Programs 3 report, which directed a Central Waterfront Review to focus on the
iconic northern shore of Vancouver’s downtown waterfront, one of the most
diverse and multi-modal transportation nodes in the world. Building on the
Central Waterfront Hub Framework (2009) and exploring the broader waterfront
interface with the Port Lands and Convention Centre activities, working together
with Port of Vancouver and TransLink, on a work plan to:
a. Clarify the extent of waterfront lands to be included in the review;
b. Identify optimum infrastructure to service changing demands;
c. Explore ways to better integrate transit services and increase capacity to
meet growing needs;
d. Explore ways to transform the hub into a world-class transportation
interchange and a dynamic extension of the downtown to the waterfront;
and
e. Advance a framework for a possible larger master plan process (future
phase);
7. July 2019, Council approved Expanding Downtown Eastside Greenspace and
Waterfront Access 4, which included staff direction to work with the Port, Park
Board, host nations, and urban indigenous communities to identify planning and

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 14
partnership opportunities, including the development and construction of an
indigenous-focused healing, wellness and/or cultural centre at CRAB Park, as
part of an overall goal to expand waterfront access;
8. To date, there remains confusion and uncertainty about the future of the Central
Waterfront with a number of incompatible and competing aspirations for the area.
Recent public forums with Simon Fraser University, and Vancouver City Planning
Commission led by the Downtown Waterfront Working Group (DWWG) have
engaged and inspired stakeholders, community members and other interested
parties to re-imagine the future of the Central Waterfront District; 5
9. A February 4, 2022, memo from the General Manager, Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability outlined work between City of Vancouver and Vancouver
Fraser Port Authority since a 2018 Letter of Intent to work together on a planning
framework for the Central Waterfront. The first phase of this work has so far
identified common goals, opportunities, and necessary infrastructure
improvements – and engaged key stakeholders (landowners and agencies)
including CP Rail, GHD Equity Holdings, Cadillac-Fairview, PavCo and
TransLink.
The memo concludes with acknowledgement that commencement of a
comprehensive planning program for the Central Waterfront is not currently
funded or resourced within the Planning and Engineering departments’ 2022
work programs but, “the City is well-placed to launch a full program in 2023,
pending Council direction to do so”;
10. The City of Vancouver does not have jurisdiction over the entire Central
Waterfront District, however, the City is uniquely empowered with the authority
and mandate to convene, collaborate, and envision complex land use decisions
and development proposals with senior governments, landowners, and
stakeholders as part of comprehensive area planning. The Central Waterfront
presents an opportunity for world class city-building and benefits to
Vancouverites and visitors for generations to come; and
11. Advancing plans for the Central Waterfront District serves many city goals related
to liveability that include: increasing public spaces, enhancing pedestrian and
cycling infrastructure, climate change resilience, reconciliation, connecting East
Vancouver waterfront, and supporting tourism and the local economy.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council re-affirms the intention to embark on planned regeneration and
renewal of the Central Waterfront in collaboration with federal and provincial
levels of government, the three host nations, private and community sectors;
FURTHER THAT this intention and planning inform future development
proposals for the Central Waterfront District.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 15
B. THAT Council direct staff to re-engage partners, stakeholders, and the public
with the intent to reinvigorate a comprehensive plan for the Central Waterfront
District;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back with necessary budget and
resourcing to commence a comprehensive planning program for the Central
Waterfront District in the 2023 budget.
* * * * *
1. Central Waterfront Official Development Plan (1979)
https://bylaws.vancouver.ca/odp/odp-central-waterfront.pdf
2. Central Waterfront Hub Framework (2009)
https://guidelines.vancouver.ca/policy-plan-central-waterfront-hub-framework.pdf
3. City Core 2050 and Related Planning Programs (RTS No. 11562, 2017)
https://council.vancouver.ca/20171017/documents/rr2.pdf
4. Expanding Downtown Eastside Greenspace and Waterfront Access (as
amended, 2019)
https://council.vancouver.ca/20190710/documents/pspc20190710min.pdf
5. Downtown Waterfront Working Group
https://vancouverwaterfront.org/
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08325)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:05 pm and reconvened at 6:06 pm.
* * * * *
7. Increasing the Empty Homes Tax to Five Percent and Improving Compliance
(Member’s Motion B.3)
At the Council meeting on April 26, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on April 27, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
WHEREAS

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 16
1. Most recent Statistics Canada data show the City of Vancouver continues to
have one of the lowest vacancy rates in the country at 1.1 percent;1
2. The Empty Homes Tax (EHT), also known as the "Vacancy Tax", was introduced
in 2017 to return empty and under-utilized properties to the market as long-term
rental homes for people who live and work in Vancouver;
3. The program requires residential property owners in Vancouver to self-declare
their property status each year;
4. Properties declared, determined, or deemed vacant are currently subject to a tax
of three percent of the property’s assessed taxable value;
5. Most residential properties are not subject to EHT, including homes that are
principal residences for at least six months of the year, homes rented out for at
least six months of the year, or homes that are eligible for other exemptions such
as death of the registered owner or major renovation activity;
6. According to the Empty Homes Tax Annual Report 2020, 5,854 of 195,012 (three
percent) of Vancouver homes were deemed vacant, of which 4,227 were
exempted under current council bylaw provisions and 1,627 deemed not exempt
and subject to the tax;2
7. Also, according to the Empty Homes Tax Annual Report 2020, “There is strong
evidence that the Empty Homes Tax is reducing the number of vacant residential
properties in Vancouver.” and, according to a recent Canadian Mortgage and
Housing Corporation report, “...of the 8,824 units converted to long-term rental in
the Vancouver CMA in 2019, an estimated 5,097 (58 percent) were located in the
City of Vancouver;3 and
8. Additional information provided by staff shows City of Vancouver staff performed
over 8,000 audits in 2019 and over 9,000 in 2020, with an average of 6.4 percent
of those audited found to be in non-compliance.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the Empty Homes Tax will be increased from three percent to five percent
for the 2023 vacancy tax reference year.
B. THAT the number of audits will be doubled from the current rate of 9,000, and
increased to 20,000 for the 2023 vacancy tax reference year.
C. THAT staff be directed to report back to council by Q1 2023 regarding:
1https://www03.cmhc-schl.gc.ca/hmip-
pimh/en/TableMapChart/Table?TableId=2.1.31.3&GeographyId=2410&GeographyTypeId=3&DisplayAs=Table&Geog
raghyName=Vancouver#TableMapChart/5915022/4/Vancouver
2 https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/vancouver-2021-empty-homes-tax-annual-report.pdf
3https://www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca/en/blog/2020-housing-observer/increase-supply-rental-condominiums-vancouver

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 17
● How the Empty Homes Tax might be used to reduce the large number of
short-term rental properties;
● How the Empty Homes Tax exemptions might be altered to improve fairness
so that those with legitimate reasons for vacancy are not penalized;
● What additional measures the City may need to counteract the Empty Homes
Tax avoidance;
● How the Empty Homes Tax will be affected by the new federal anti-flipping
measures that tax profits from properties sold within 12 months of a
purchase; and
● How increasing the rate to 10 percent might further increase rental stock.
* * * * *
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT in the second bullet of C, the following words be added “and/or having a second
property” before the words “are not penalized”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 08328)
(Councillors Boyle, Fry and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added to the end of A:
FURTHER THAT notification of the Empty Homes Tax increase from three
percent to five percent for the 2023 vacancy tax reference year be included in the
upcoming tax notices mailed and delivered electronically to property owners in
May 2022.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08329)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added to the end of B:
FURTHER THAT the cost of hiring additional staff to administer the increased
audits will be fully cost-recovered from the vacancy tax revenues.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08330)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added as D:

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 18
THAT Council direct staff to improve the Empty Homes Tax web portal with the
end user in mind to ensure property owners get clear information about the EHT
and how to navigate the different reporting and appeal processes;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back on how they can
improve communication to property owners about the EHT deadlines, noting that
legitimate home owners continue missing deadlines, and not receiving tax EHT
and being unduly penalized.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT in D. the following words “how to report empty homes” be added before the words
“and how to navigate”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08331)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe absent for the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08332) with Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe absent for
the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT in C. the following words be struck “Q1 2023” and replaced with “early Q4 2022”;
FURTHER THAT the following be added as the fourth bullet in C:
A cost-benefit analysis of doubling the number of audits;
FURTHER THAT in the sixth bullet of C, the following words be added “5 or” before “10
percent”;
AND FURTHER THAT the following be added as a seventh bullet of C:
How increasing the rate to 5 or 10 percent might significantly increase the risk of
tax evasion and unintended consequences.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08333)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT Council direct staff to bring forward changes to the Empty Homes Tax to
exempt vacant land that has never before been developed or been a dwelling.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 19
LOST (Vote No. 08334).
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT Council direct staff to bring forward changes to the Empty Homes Tax to
exempt properties formally in the Development Process with the City of
Vancouver, beyond one year.
LOST (Vote No. 08335)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Hardwick, Swanson, and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT Council direct staff to bring forward changes to exempt land owned by
MST from the empty homes tax.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT in E, the following words be struck “changes to exempt” and replaced with “more
information for Council to consider related to the possibility and impacts of exempting”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08336)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe absent for the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amended amendment was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08337); the motion as amended was then put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08338) with Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe absent for
both votes.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT the Empty Homes Tax will be increased from three percent to five percent
for the 2023 vacancy tax reference year;
FURTHER THAT notification of the Empty Homes Tax increase from three
percent to five percent for the 2023 vacancy tax reference year be included in the
upcoming tax notices mailed and delivered electronically to property owners in
May 2022.
B. THAT the number of audits will be doubled from the current rate of 9,000, and
increased to 20,000 for the 2023 vacancy tax reference year;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 20
FURTHER THAT the cost of hiring additional staff to administer the increased
audits will be fully cost-recovered from the vacancy tax revenues.
C. THAT staff be directed to report back to council by early Q4 2022 regarding:
● How the Empty Homes Tax might be used to reduce the large number of
short-term rental properties;
● How the Empty Homes Tax exemptions might be altered to improve fairness
so that those with legitimate reasons for vacancy, and/or having a second
property, are not penalized;
● What additional measures the City may need to counteract the Empty Homes
Tax avoidance;
● A cost-benefit analysis of doubling the number of audits;
● How the Empty Homes Tax will be affected by the new federal anti-flipping
measures that tax profits from properties sold within 12 months of a
purchase;
● How increasing the rate to 5 or 10 percent might further increase rental stock;
and
● How increasing the rate to 5 or 10 percent might significantly increase the risk
of tax evasion and unintended consequences.
D. THAT Council direct staff to improve the Empty Homes Tax web portal with the
end user in mind to ensure property owners get clear information about the EHT,
how to report empty homes and how to navigate the different reporting and
appeal processes;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back on how they can
improve communication to property owners about the EHT deadlines, noting that
legitimate home owners continue missing deadlines, and not receiving tax EHT
and being unduly penalized.
E. THAT Council direct staff to bring forward more information for Council to
consider related to the possibility and impacts of exempting land owned by MST
from the empty homes tax.
8. CCTV Cameras for the Purpose of Public Safety and Deterring and Solving Violent
Crime (Member’s Motion B.4)
At the Council meeting on April 26, 2022, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on April 27, 2022, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion, four speakers in opposition of
the motion, and one speaker who spoke about other aspects of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 21
1. Many large cities worldwide, including London and New York, utilize CCTV
cameras as a means of surveillance to help deter and solve violent crimes;
2. Technology has advanced in the United Kingdom, and the Metropolitan Police
have moved beyond CCTV cameras by implementing Facial Recognition
technology. The Metropolitan police have stated, “Facial Recognition (FR)
technology can be used in a number of ways by the Met, including to prevent and
detect crime, find wanted criminals, safeguard vulnerable people, and to protect
people from harm.”;
3. Washington, New York and Orlando are among the cities in the United States of
America piloting and implementing Facial Recognition technology;
4. During the 2010 Olympics, CCTV cameras were installed and recorded in
specific public areas. These cameras and their footage helped maintain public
safety and solve violent crime in the City of Vancouver.
For example, CCTV footage helped bring justice to a violent crime committed on
Granville Street during the 2010 Olympics when a man attacked a stranger,
slashing his throat with a box cutter;
5. Smartphones equipped with video recording are common, and in many countries,
including Canada, there are no laws precluding people from filming people in
public spaces;
6. Expanding CCTV cameras in public spaces in the City of Vancouver was
debated by Vancouver City Council in 2018. However, violent crime has since
increased;
7. The City of Vancouver currently uses public safety cameras to ‘support public
safety operations during planned events like the Celebration of Lights and assist
first responders during emergencies.’ The City of Vancouver website includes
maps with the locations of these cameras; and
8. Privately owned and installed CCTV cameras have assisted police in
investigations to solve crimes. However, the coverage of these cameras cannot
be relied on for consistency or coverage city-wide.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to engage the Vancouver Police Department and
determine critical areas where CCTV cameras could be installed in public, yet not
monitored live, to deter violent crime and collect evidence to help solve violent
crime;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council in Q3 2022 with
recommendations, including recommendations to fund CCTV cameras, to
prioritize public safety.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 22
B. THAT Council direct staff to engage the Vancouver Police Department and the
Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner to conduct a Privacy Impact
Assessment;
FURTHER that staff work with the Vancouver Police Department to develop a
strategy to educate property owners, businesses and residents about the value
of using CCTV cameras to deter crime and help solve incidents of violent crime
occurring in the City of Vancouver and report back to Council with an update by
Q3 2022.
* * * * *
REFERENCES:
1. Facial Recognition
Metropolitan Police
https://www.met.police.uk/advice/advice-and-information/fr/facial-recognition
2. Throat Slashing Victim Left With Disappointment
Global News
https://globalnews.ca/news/158667/throat-slashing-victim-left-with-disappointment/
3. Vancouver Councillor seeks changes, even cameras, on Granville Strip
Vancouver Sun
https://vancouversun.com/news/crime/vancouver-councillor-seeks-changes-even-
cameras-on-granville-strip
4. Public Safety Cameras
City of Vancouver
https://vancouver.ca/home-property-development/public-safety-cameras.aspx
5. Security Camera catches Vancouver Senior robbed in distraction theft
Global News
https://globalnews.ca/news/7372157/security-camera-senior-distraction-theft/
LOST (Vote No. 08339)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Swanson, and Mayor Stewart
opposed)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 8:48 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
APRIL 27, 2022
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, April 27, 2022, at
8:40 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee. This Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the
Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Jean Swanson
ABSENT: Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, April 27, 2022
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Supporting the Innovation Economy (Member's Motion B.7)
2. Enabling a Recovery Community Centre in the City of Vancouver (Member's Motion B.8)
3. 2021 Housing Progress Report, Housing Needs Report, and Update on Housing Targets
Refresh
4. Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board - Annual Report 2021
5. Environmental Consulting Services
6. Catalysing Planning for the Future of Central Waterfront District (Member's Motion B.2)
7. Increasing the Empty Homes Tax to Five Percent and Improving Compliance (Member’s
Motion B.3)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, April 27, 2022 2
8. CCTV Cameras for the Purpose of Public Safety and Deterring and Solving Violent
Crime (Member’s Motion B.4)
Items 1 to 8
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of April 27, 2022, as contained in Items 1 to 8, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 8:49 pm.
* * * * *