REPORT TO COUNCIL
AUDITOR GENERAL COMMITTEE
APRIL 22, 2022
A meeting of the Auditor General Committee was held on Friday, April 22, 2022, at 1:10 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Committee meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Pete Fry, Chair
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung (Vice-Chair)
Councillor Michael Wiebe
Archie G. Johnston (External Representative)
Karen Keilty (External Representative)
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence for Personal
Reasons)
ALSO PRESENT: Mike Macdonell, Auditor General
Lori Berndt, Deputy Auditor General
Jenny Lau, Audit Principal, Office of the Auditor General
Stacey Lee, Audit Principal, Office of the Auditor General
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. Whistleblower Study
The Auditor General provided a presentation on the Whistleblower Study, and along with the
Chief Human Resources Officer, responded to questions from the Committee.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung

Auditor General Committee
Minutes, Friday, April 22, 2022 2
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the Auditor General Committee recommends to Council to direct City staff
to revise the Whistleblower policy so that it addresses complaints coming from
sources external to the City and report back to Council before the end of July.
B. THAT the Auditor General Committee recommends to Council to direct staff to
revise the Whistleblower policy so that the Auditor General is delegated
responsibility for the intake, assessment and investigation of complaints, making
recommendations for corrective action and publicly reporting results, except for
complaints involving elected officials, which are to be referred to the Integrity
Commissioner.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following be added as C:
THAT the Auditor General Committee receive the Whistleblower
Study for information.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08295)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08296)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT the Auditor General Committee recommend to Council to direct City staff
to revise the Whistleblower policy so that it addresses complaints coming from
sources external to the City and report back to Council before the end of July.
B. THAT the Auditor General Committee recommend to Council to direct staff to
revise the Whistleblower policy so that the Auditor General is delegated
responsibility for the intake, assessment and investigation of complaints, making
recommendations for corrective action and publicly reporting results, except for
complaints involving elected officials, which are to be referred to the Integrity
Commissioner.
C. THAT the Auditor General Committee receive the Whistleblower Study for
information.
2. Introduction of Auditor General Senior Staff Team
The Auditor General provided a brief introduction of the senior staff team of the Auditor General
Office to the Committee.
ADJOURNMENT

Auditor General Committee
Minutes, Friday, April 22, 2022 3
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Committee adjourned at 1:56 pm.
* * * * *