SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
March 31 and April 7, 2022
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday,
March 31, 2022, at 3:01 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose of
conducting a workshop with Council on the draft 2023-2026 Capital Plan. Subsequently, the
meeting reconvened on Thursday, April 7, 2022, at 3:02 pm. This Special Council meeting was
convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova (Leave of Absence – March 31,
2022 from 3 to 6 pm)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT – Transgender Day of Visibility
The Mayor noted that March 31 is Transgender Day of Visibility and acknowledged the many
contributions Transgender, Non-Binary and Two-Spirit people make to Vancouver. It was noted
that City Hall would be illuminated blue, pink and white in recognition of this important day.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, March 31 and April 7, 2022 2
* * * * *
On March 31, 2022, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to allow for questions to staff and
staff presentations and to recess at or before 6 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
1. 2023-2026 Capital Plan Workshop
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager, provided a brief outline of the purpose of the Capital Plan
Workshop and the development of the 2023-2026 Draft Capital Plan.
Paul Mochrie, City Manager, provided an introduction and overview of the development of the
2023-2026 Capital Plan.
Theresa O’Donnell, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided an
overview of the Capital Plan and City-Building and the relationship between the Capital Plan
Framework and Development Cost Levies (DCLs).
Patrice Impey, General Manager, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, provided an
overview of the draft 2023-2026 Capital Plan, including goals for capital planning, financial
sustainability guiding principles, range of capital funding sources, infrastructure deficit, and large
one-off projects.
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager, Grace Cheng, Director, Long-term Financial Strategy &
Planning, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, Doug Smith, Director, Sustainability,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, Patrice Impey, General Manager, Finance, Risk and
Supply Chain Management, Theresa O’Donnell, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, Donnie Rosa, General Manager, Vancouver Parks and Recreation, Michel
Desrochers, Manager, Capital Planning & Strategy, and Paul Mochrie, City Manager, responded
to questions.
Following questions to staff on March 31, 2022, the City Leadership Team presented on the
Capital Plan Service Categories as outlined below:
• Donnie Rosa, General Manager, Vancouver Parks and Recreation (Parks and Open
Spaces, and Recreational Facilities)
• Christina de Castell, Chief Librarian (Libraries)
• Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services (Social
Facilities)
• Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager (Archives)

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, March 31 and April 7, 2022 3
• Amrin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager and Acting General Manager, Real Estate and
Facilities Management (Service Yards)
• Lon LaClaire, General Manager, Engineering Services (Vehicles and Equipment,
Streets, One Water, Solid Waste, and Renewable Energy)
• Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services (Affordable
Housing, Childcare, Public Art and Cultural Facilities)
• Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager and Acting General Manager, Real Estate and
Facilities Management (Public Safety, Animal Services)
* * * * *
On March 31, 2022, during presentations by staff, Council recessed at 5:48 pm and
reconvened on April 7, 2022, at 3:02 pm.
* * * * *
On April 7, 2022, the following members of the City Leadership Team continued to present the
Capital Plan Service Categories as outlined below:
• Tadhg Healy, Chief Technology Officer (Technology)
• Theresa O’Donnell, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability
(Heritage Buildings)
• Karen Fry, Fire Chief (Public Safety, Fire)
• Steve Rai, Deputy Chief Constable, Support Services Division (Public Safety, Police)
Following staff presentations on April 7, 2022, Grace Cheng, Director, Long-term Financial
Strategy & Planning, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, and Paul Mochrie, City
Manager, provided an overview of some of the questions received between March 31, and
April 6, 2022.
* * * * *
On April 7, 2022, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council allow a second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Karen Fry, Fire Chief, Lon LaClaire, General Manager, Engineering Services, Donnie Rosa,
General Manager, Vancouver Parks and Recreation, Grace Cheng, Director, Long-term
Financial Strategy & Planning, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, Patrice Impey,

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, March 31 and April 7, 2022 4
General Manager, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, Steve Rai, Deputy Chief
Constable, Support Services Division, Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager and Acting General
Manager, Real Estate and Facilities Management, Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts,
Culture and Community Services, Dan Garrison, Assistant Director, Housing Policy &
Regulation, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager,
Paul Mochrie, City Manager, and Christina de Castell, Chief Librarian, responded to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, at 4:16 pm on April 7, 2022, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council suspend the rules of section 5.4(d) of the Procedure By-law in order to
allow an additional round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
On April 7, 2022, the Special Council adjourned at 4:58 pm.
* * * * *