COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 29, 2022
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, March 29, 2022, at
9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from 3 pm to 6:30 pm)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
CONDOLENCES – Vancouver Police Department Superintendent Bill Spearn
Mayor Stewart expressed condolences on behalf of City Council to Superintendent Spearn’s
family, friends and colleagues at the VPD, and noted Superintendent Spearn’s many
achievements and contributions.
MOMENT OF SILENCE for Ukraine

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed
by the city;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to business
interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act;
and
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – March 1, 2022
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of March 1, 2022, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 3
2. Public Hearing – March 1, 2022
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of March 1, 2022, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – March 2, 2022
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting of March 2, 2022, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Public Hearing – March 3, 2022
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of March 3, 2022, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Special Council (Business Licence Hearing) – March 8, 2022
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Business Licence Hearing) meeting of
March 8, 2022, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
6. Special Council (Business Licence Hearing) – March 9, 2022
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Business Licence Hearing) meeting of
March 9, 2022, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 4
7. Special Council (In Camera Motion) – March 10, 2022
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (In Camera Motion) meeting of
March 10, 2022, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Reports 3, 4, 5 and 6, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REPORTS
1. Millennium Line UBC Extension Alignment and Integration
March 17, 2022
Staff from Engineering Services presented on the item and along with staff from Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability, Mayor Stewart and Marisa Espinosa, Director of Major
Studies, TransLink, responded to questions.
Council heard from 18 speakers who provided comments opposing the recommendations.
* * * * *
During hearing from speakers on Item 1, Council recessed at 11:56 am, and reconvened at
3:05 pm with Mayor Stewart on a Leave of Absence and Deputy Mayor Wiebe as Chair.
* * * * *
Subsequent to hearing speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT Council endorse a Millennium Line UBC SkyTrain Extension alignment
from Arbutus Street to UBC as described in the report, including stations at
MacDonald Street, Alma Street and Jericho Lands.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 5
B. THAT Council endorse a station location within the Jericho Lands with the
location to be refined through future City and TransLink processes.
C. THAT Council endorse staff working with project partners including the Province,
TransLink and others to advance opportunities for station integration with
development and achieve shared design objectives such as enhanced
connectivity, accessibility, passenger amenities as well as a vibrant public realm.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT in A, the words “Jericho Lands” be removed and replaced with:
“and a third station within the City of Vancouver at either Sasamat Street or
Jericho Lands”;
FURTHER THAT B be struck and replaced with the following:
“THAT Council direct staff to report back on a recommendation for the location of
the third station following the release of TransLink’s technical planning work.”
lost
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT in A, the words “at either Sasamat Street or Jericho Lands” be struck.
LOST (Vote No. 08188)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having lost, the amendment was put and LOST (Vote
No. 08189) with Councillors Boyle, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Swanson and Wiebe
opposed, and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT in C, the words “and housing affordable to people earning under $50K.” be added
to the end;
FURTHER THAT the following be added as D and E:
D. THAT Council ask staff to review previously passed Development Cost
Expectation charges along the entire corridor to recalibrate them in keeping with
land price increases since 2018.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 6
E. THAT Council ask staff to report back on the following issues as soon as
possible:
1) How to ensure that the UBC transit corridor initiative does not result in
the same degree of land price speculation and consequent high housing
prices and rents as in the case of the Skytrain on Cambie;
2) How to get real affordability along the UBC Skytrain route calibrated to
average renter incomes and how to protect the affordable rental stock
that exists there now;
3) How to ensure that the cost of the UBC transit doesn’t starve the rest of
the transit system for people who don’t use that route and that other
routes that need faster transit are appropriately prioritized and funded;
4) The impact of embodied carbon in Skytrain construction on our GHG
reduction targets; and
5) Redone ridership projections, given COVID and more people working,
studying and meeting virtually.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08190)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council receive the report: Millennium Line UBC Extension Alignment and
Integration, for information and refer back to staff for further consultation with the public
including with MST.
LOST (Vote No. 08191)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Swanson and Wiebe opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The amendments having either carried or lost, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 8192) with Councillor Hardwick opposed.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council endorse a Millennium Line UBC SkyTrain Extension alignment
from Arbutus Street to UBC as described in the Report dated March 17, 2022,
entitled “Millennium Line UBC Extension Alignment and Integration”, including
stations at MacDonald Street, Alma Street and Jericho Lands.
B. THAT Council endorse a station location within the Jericho Lands with the
location to be refined through future City and TransLink processes.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 7
C. THAT Council endorse staff working with project partners including the Province,
TransLink and others to advance opportunities for station integration with
development and achieve shared design objectives such as enhanced
connectivity, accessibility, passenger amenities as well as a vibrant public realm
and housing affordable to people earning under $50K.
D. THAT Council ask staff to review previously passed Development Cost
Expectation charges along the entire corridor to recalibrate them in keeping with
land price increases since 2018.
E. THAT Council ask staff to report back on the following issues as soon as
possible:
1) How to ensure that the UBC transit corridor initiative does not result in
the same degree of land price speculation and consequent high housing
prices and rents as in the case of the Skytrain on Cambie;
2) How to get real affordability along the UBC Skytrain route calibrated to
average renter incomes and how to protect the affordable rental stock
that exists there now;
3) How to ensure that the cost of the UBC transit doesn’t starve the rest of
the transit system for people who don’t use that route and that other
routes that need faster transit are appropriately prioritized and funded;
4) The impact of embodied carbon in Skytrain construction on our GHG
reduction targets; and
5) Redone ridership projections, given COVID and more people working,
studying and meeting virtually.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 4:59 pm, and reconvened at 6 pm.
* * * * *
2. Rupert and Renfrew Station Area Planning - Terms of Reference and Interim
Policies
March 15, 2022
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation, and along with
staff from Engineering Services, responded to questions.
Council heard from one speaker who provided general comments to the recommendations.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 8
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT Council approve the Rupert and Renfrew Station Area Planning Terms of
Reference generally as attached in Appendix A of the Report dated March 15,
2022, entitled “Rupert and Renfrew Station Area Planning - Terms of Reference
and Interim Policies”.
B. THAT Council approve the Rupert and Renfrew Interim Rezoning Policy,
generally as attached in Appendix B of the Report dated March 15, 2022, entitled
“Rupert and Renfrew Station Area Planning - Terms of Reference and Interim
Policies”, and with amendments as identified below to 1.(b), and in the
associated Council memo, to establish the conditions under which new rezoning
enquiries and applications will be considered while the planning process is
underway;
1. Applications may be considered where:
(a) At the time of adoption of this policy, there is an active rezoning
application; or
(b) Where a recent application for rezoning advice has been received
within one year the 18 months prior to the approval of this policy and the
applicant has received a written response stating that a rezoning
application would be considered and the applicant has submitted a
subsequent rezoning application within 180 days one year of the the letter
of response approval of this policy;
FURTHER THAT Council approve consequential amendments to the Grandview
Boundary Mixed Employment Area Plan as attached in Appendix C of the
above-noted Report, the Grandview Boundary Mixed Employment Area
Rezoning and Development Policies and Guidelines as attached in Appendix D
of the same Report, and the Secured Rental Policy as attached in Appendix E of
the same Report, in order to limit the opportunity for consideration of rezoning
enquiries or applications within the current Still Creek floodplain boundary while
the planning process is underway and make the policies consistent with the
Interim Rezoning Policy.
C. THAT Council approve amendments to the Development Contribution
Expectations Policy in Areas Undergoing Community Planning, generally as
attached in Appendix F of the Report dated March 15, 2022, entitled “Rupert and
Renfrew Station Area Planning - Terms of Reference and Interim Policies”, to
manage potential land value speculation in the area around Rupert and Renfrew
SkyTrain Stations during the planning process.
D. THAT Council approve amendments to the Community Amenity Contributions
(CAC) Policy for Rezonings, generally as attached in Appendix G of the Report
dated March 15, 2022, entitled “Rupert and Renfrew Station Area Planning -
Terms of Reference and Interim Policies”, to introduce a new negotiated CAC for
rezoning applications within the Grandview-Boundary Mixed Employment Area.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 9
E. THAT Council direct staff to explore interim flood risk management policies and
report back to Council with recommendations, including potential updates to the
City’s Flood Plain Standards and Requirements, to address the increasing flood
hazard resulting from climate change and increased development in the Still
Creek watershed.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 08193)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
3. Annual Federation of Canadian Municipalities, Union of British Columbia
Municipalities and Lower Mainland Local Government Association Membership
Fees for 2022 to 2023
January 27, 2022
THAT grants to the following organizations for the 2022 to 2023 membership fees be
approved; the source of funds the 2022 Operating Budget:
(a) Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM) $ 134,246.29
(b) Union of British Columbia Municipalities (UBCM) $ 60,000.00*
(c) Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA) $ 7,500.00*
(* approximate)
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 08182)
4. Revised and Expanded Timeframe for Saa-ust Licence, 44 East Cordova Street
February 1, 2022
A. THAT Council authorize the Directors of Real Estate Services and Legal
Services to seek approval from The Vancouver Public Housing Corporation
(“VPHC”), which is wholly owned by the City, to negotiate and execute a new
licence agreement with The Indian Residential School Survivors Society (the
“Society”), which is a charitable organization registered with the Canada
Revenue Agency, as the non-profit operator of the Saa-ust Centre (“Saa-ust”),
located in an approximately 2,500 square foot ground-floor retail space (the
“Premises”) owned by the VPHC with a civic address of 44 East Cordova Street
and legally described as:
PID’s 015-691-144 and 015-691-187; Lots 9 & 10, Block 8, District Lot,
and legally described as: 196, Plan 184, New Westminster Land District.
The new licence agreement will be on the terms approved by Council in RTS
14092 on November 24, 2020, except that the length of term will be revised and
expanded to two (2) years commencing January 1, 2022, with an additional one
(1) year renewal option to be approved by the General Manager of Arts, Culture,
and Community Services. The Society will pay a nominal, below-market licence

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 10
fee for the Premises and thus Council’s approval of A. will constitute a grant of
approximately $40,000 per annum.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s approval
of A above unless and until VPHC enters into the licence agreement with the
Society.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 08183)
5. 3493 Commercial St – Closure of a Portion of Road for Heritage Building
Encroachments
February 25, 2022
A. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to apply and raise title in
the name of the City of Vancouver to that portion of Commercial Street that
contains the encroachments of the existing building at 3493 Commercial Street
(the “Road”), the said portion being shown on a reduced copy of a Reference
Plan attached as Appendix A of the Report dated February 25, 2022, entitled
“3493 Commercial St – Closure of a Portion of Road for Heritage Building
Encroachments”.
B. THAT all those volumetric portions of Road included within the heavy outline and
illustrated isometrically on a plan of survey, a reduced copy of which is attached
as Appendix B of the Report dated February 25, 2022, entitled “3493 Commercial
St – Closure of a Portion of Road for Heritage Building Encroachments”, be
closed, stopped-up and that an easement be granted to the owner of abutting
[PID: 031-118-500] Lot A District Lot 751 Group 1 New Westminster District Plan
EPP102275 (“Lot A”) to contain the portions of the existing building which
encroach onto the Road, to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
C. THAT the fees for the document preparation, registration and use of the
easement referred to in B above are to be in accordance with those prescribed
under the Encroachment By-law.
D. THAT the Director of Legal Services be authorized to execute all documents and
plans required.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 08184)
6. 1650 East 12th Avenue – Closure and Conveyance of Lane
February 28, 2022
A. That Council close, stop-up and convey to the owner of those lands described in
Appendix A of the Report dated February 28, 2022, entitled “1650 East 12th
Avenue – Closure and Conveyance of Lane” (the “Abutting Lands”), being 1650
East 12th Avenue that approximately 41.3 square metre (445 square feet) portion
of abutting lane as generally shown in bold outline on the plan attached as

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 11
Appendix B of the Report dated February 28, 2022, entitled “1650 East 12th
Avenue – Closure and Conveyance of Lane” (the “Lane Portion”), subject to the
terms and conditions noted in Appendix A of the same Report.
B. THAT the sale proceeds of $313,725 be credited to the Property Endowment
Fund (PEF).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 08187)
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 14
and 16, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
LOST - reconsidered
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
Note: During New Business, a vote to reconsider By-law 1 was put and carried; subsequently,
the vote on By-law Number 1 was put and CARRIED with Councillors Bligh, De Genova,
Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 15,
17, 18, 19, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 12
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 2 - 13 inclusive, and authorize
the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
1. A By-law to amend License By-law No. 4450 regarding beverage cups (By-law No. 13291)
2. A By-law to amend the Board of Variance By-law No. 10200 regarding miscellaneous
matters (By-law No. 13292)
3. A By-law to Average Land Assessments for 2022 (By-law No. 13293)
4. A By-law to amend the Drinking Water Conservation By-law No. 12086 regarding
amendments to reflect Metro Vancouver’s updated Drinking Water Conservation Plan
(By-law No. 13294)
5. A By-law to amend the By-law Notice Enforcement By-law No. 10201 regarding
amendments to the Drinking Water Conservation By-law (By-law No. 13295)
6. A By-law to amend the Ticket Offences By-law No. 9360 regarding amendments to the
Drinking Water Conservation By-law (By-law No. 13296)
7. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
Commercial Drive (By-law No. 13297)
8. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the Commercial Drive
Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 13298)
9. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property regarding 510
West Hastings Street (By-law No. 13299)
(Councillor Carr and Mayor Stewart ineligible to vote)
10. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 regarding miscellaneous
and housekeeping amendments (By-law No. 13300)
(Councillor Carr and Mayor Stewart ineligible to vote)
11. A By-law to amend East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan By-law No. 9393
regarding housekeeping amendments (By-law No. 13301)
12. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 regarding 810 Kingsway (By-law No. 133302)
13. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 regarding 512 West King Edward Avenue (By-law No. 13303)
(Councillors Dominato, Hardwick, Swanson and Mayor Stewart ineligible to vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 13
14. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 regarding 5107-5119 Main Street and 196 East 35th Avenue (By-law No. 13304)
15. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 regarding 1325 West 70th Avenue (By-law No. 13305)
16. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8AN regarding 721-735 West 49th Avenue (By-law No. 13306)
17. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1289 Nicola Street (By-law No. 13307)
18. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 4118-4138 Cambie Street (By-law No. 13308)
19. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 545 East Cordova (By-law No. 13309)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development – 4506 Rupert Street
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 4506 Rupert Street
(formerly known as 4506 Rupert Street and 3309 Price Street) be approved generally as
illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2020-00771, prepared by GBL
Architects, and submitted electronically on October 18, 2021, provided that the Director
of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
2. Approval of Form of Development – 4121 Cambie Street (Formerly 512 West King
Edwards Avenue)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 4121 Cambie Street
(formerly 512 West King Edward Avenue) be approved generally as illustrated in the
Development Application Number DP-2019-00708, prepared by Bradbury Architecture
and submitted electronically on August 29, 2019, provided that the Director of Planning
may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect
either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 14
3. Resolution: 3493 Commercial Street Heritage – Closure of a Portion of Road for
Heritage Building Encroachments
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is the owner of all the streets and lanes lying within the
limits of the City of Vancouver;
2. Portions of the roof parapet above bay windows, the bay windows and the
exterior trim on the facade of the heritage building on Lot A, District Lot 751,
Group 1, New Westminster District, Plan EPP102275 (“Lot A”) encroach onto
Commercial Street;
3. The portion of Commercial Street which is encroached upon, abutting said Lot A,
were dedicated by the deposit of Plan 1201;
4. To provide for the registration of an easement to contain the said encroachments
onto Commercial Street, as required by Section 244 of the Strata Property Act, it
is necessary to raise title to the portions of the Road that is encroached upon;
and
5. To enable Council to grant the required easement to contain the said
encroachments, it is necessary for Council to close and stop-up the volumetric
portions of Commercial Street that is encroached upon.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Director of Legal Services be authorized to
make application on behalf of the City of Vancouver to raise title in the name of the City
of Vancouver to that portion of road dedicated by the deposit of Plan 1201, included
within the heavy bold outline on the Reference Plan EPP118718, completed by Craig
Nakamura, B.C.L.S., on the 24th day of February, 2022, and numbered
N3790-Road-CL-R3, a reduced copy of which is attached hereto;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT all that volumetric portion of Commercial
Street included within heavy bold outline and illustrated isometrically on the Explanatory
Plan EPP118719, completed by Craig Nakamura, B.C.L.S., on the 9th day of March,
2022, and numbered N3790-EASE-Vol-R2, a reduced copy of which is also attached, be
closed, stopped-up and that an easement be granted to the owner of abutting Lot A,
District Lot 751, Group 1, New Westminster District, Plan EPP102275 (“Lot A”) to
contain the portions of roof parapet above bay windows and bay windows of the heritage
building which encroaches onto Commercial Street; the said easement to be to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 15
4. Resolution: Closure and Sale of Portion of Lane Adjacent to 1650 East 12th
Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS:
1. The City of Vancouver is the owner of all the streets and lanes lying within the
limits of the City of Vancouver;
2. There is a proposal to redevelop [PID: 004-343-719] Lot A, Block 170, District Lot
264A, Plan 16071, the “Abutting Lands”;
3. The owner of the Abutting Lands has made application to purchase the abutting
41.3 square metre portion of lane;
4. The said portion of lane to be closed was dedicated by the deposit of Plan 222 in
1887;
5. The said portion of lane to be closed is no longer required for municipal
purposes;
6. The said portion of lane to be closed will be conveyed to the abutting owner and
subdivided with the Abutting Lands to form a single parcel and to dedicate road
to the City.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT all that portion of lane adjacent to the said
Abutting Lands, the same as shown in heavy outline on the Reference Plan prepared by
Christopher R. El-Araj, B.C.L.S., completed on the 2nd day of November, 2021, and
numbered Plan EPP115584, a copy of which is attached hereto, be closed, stopped-up
and conveyed to the owner of the said Abutting Lands; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the said portion of lane to be closed is to be
subdivided with the said Abutting Lands to form a single parcel and to dedicate road to
the City, as shown within the heavy bold outline on the Subdivision Plan prepared by
Christopher R. El-Araj, B.C.L.S., completed on the 2nd day of November, 2021, and
numbered Plan EPP115585, a copy of which is attached hereto, to the satisfaction of the
Director of Legal Services and the Approving Officer.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 16
5. Consequential Amendments to RT-4, RT-4A, RT-4N, RT-4AN, RT-5, RT-5N and
RT-6 Guidelines
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the amended document entitled “RT-4, RT-4A, RT-4N, RT-4AN, RT-5, RT-5N and
RT-6 Guidelines”, previously approved by Council, be adopted by Council for use by
applicants and staff for development applications in the relevant districts.
CARRIED
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings on March 30, 2022, from 6 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on April 6, 2022, from 3:30 to 6 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on April 26, 2022, from 5 pm onwards;
AND FURTHER THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for
civic business from meetings on April 27, 2022, from 6:30 to 8 pm.
B. THAT Councillor Boyle be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on April 7, 2022, from 6 pm onwards.
C. THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business
from meetings on May 18, 2022, from 12:30 to 7:30 pm.
D. THAT Councillor Wiebe be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on June 22, 2022, from 1 pm to 5 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Wiebe be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on July 27, 2022, from 9 am to 1 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 17
* * * * *
Following the vote on Motion B.1, the Mayor returned and resumed the role of Chair.
* * * * *
2. Changes to the April and June Business Licence Hearing Panels
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Councillor Carr replace Councillor Bligh at the Business Licence Hearing to be
held April 19, 2022;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Bligh replace Councillor Carr as Chair at the Business
Licence Hearing to be held June 14, 2022.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Placekeeping: Protecting and Supporting Cultural Food Assets and Other Forms
of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. Vancouverites continue to express concern about the loss of places of intangible
cultural heritage, including beloved small businesses, restaurants and other
cultural food assets. The threat of loss of these spaces is particularly acute for
migrant and newcomer communities, and other equity-denied groups, because of
the role that small local businesses play as an economic driver and the role that
food plays in connections to culture, community and identity;
2. Intangible cultural heritage refers to the forms of culture that are important to
groups of people, and are embedded in everyday life (for example
Filipino/Pilipino food culture). Cultural food assets are a significant example of
intangible cultural heritage, where intangible cultural heritage can be accessed,
experienced and transmitted. Cultural food assets include many small
businesses such as green grocers, restaurants, food courts, and venues or
services which are significant to a community or neighbourhood. These spaces
look and function in unique ways within different communities and may require
different approaches to protection and promotion;
3. Long-standing Vancouver housing policy has limited new rental and multi-family
housing to arterials, putting added speculative and development pressure on
commercial stretches including many culturally significant small and local
businesses and cultural food assets, representing a significant risk to the

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 18
intangible cultural heritage of many of Vancouver’s neighborhoods. Planner and
past Vancouver Councillor Gordon Price refers to this intentional political and
policy choice as the “Grand Bargain”.1 Additionally, new ground floor commercial
spaces tend to have larger floor plates that are less economically viable for many
small, locally-owned businesses;
4. In recent decades the majority of new rental and multi-family housing has been
built in low- and middle-income neighbourhoods, and neighbourhoods with a
higher percentage of racialized and immigrant residents. These neighbourhoods
are home to many small businesses significant to equity-denied communities,
resulting in greater risk of displacement due to redevelopment;
5. COVID-19 continues to create significant financial pressure on small businesses,
and existing inequalities have been exacerbated by the pandemic, creating
additional pressure on small businesses, culturally focused non-profits, or food
assets critical to a neighbourhood or a community’s culture. Vancouver City
Council and small business leaders have been calling for Split Assessment
taxation as one tool to relieve pressure on small local businesses;
6. The COVID-19 pandemic has also uncovered systemic food insecurity within
racialized and equity-seeking communities most impacted by unemployment,
precarious or unsafe work. And has resulted in delays in a number of city
programs, including continued work on increasing the financial accessibility and
availability of food access and an update to the Vancouver Food Strategy Report.
In many neighbourhoods local food networks or non-profit organizations have
stepped in to fill these gaps;
7. Grassroots community mobilization in a variety of Vancouver neighbourhoods
have spearheaded the protection and revitalization of cultural food assets, and
have been calling on the City of Vancouver to act to protect culturally significant
food assets across the city:
a. Organizations such as hua foundation, Chinatown Concern Group, the
City of Vancouver’s Chinatown Legacy Stewardship Group, Youth
Collaborative for Chinatown, and Yarrow Intergenerational Society for
Justice have been supporting heritage business retention,
intergenerational community building and affordability advocacy in
Chinatown.
b. The Punjabi Market Collective is a group of passionate advocates, artists,
students and entrepreneurs who are working towards revitalizing
Vancouver’s historic Punjabi Market by beautifying the market,
developing and promoting businesses and creating a hub for arts and
culture.
c. The Joyce St Action Network is a group of Filipino/Pilipino and Chinese
community organizers who have been working to support the retention of
six Chinese, Korean and Filipino/Pilipino cultural food assets currently at
1 https://viewpointvancouver.ca/2019/10/17/the-grand-bargain-illustrated/

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 19
risk of displacement near Joyce Station.
d. The Hogans Alley Society and Black and African diaspora residents have
been working for cultural redress for the black community in North East
False Creek, recognizing the historic displacement of the black
community, including black agriculture and businesses. The Nora Hendrix
TMH includes a culturally rooted food and herb garden for residents and
the community.
8. The work of Vancouver’s Taskforce on Implementing the UN Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous People (UNDRIP), composed of elected officials from
Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil Waututh Nations and the City of Vancouver,
and engagement with Urban Indigenous communities is framed around four
themes including “Social, Cultural and Economic Well-Being”. The relationships
between land, culture and heritage are an important part of this discussion,
related to multiple articles of UNDRIP;
9. In March 2020, Vancouver City Council approved the Heritage Action Plan -
Vancouver Heritage Program, which included a commitment to better integrate
Truth & Reconciliation, Cultural Redress, and Tangible and Intangible Cultural
Heritage;
10. In 2019, Council approved Culture|Shift: Blanketing the City in Arts and Culture,
which included directions to prioritize intangible cultural heritage and promote
cultural redress and to prevent displacement and support affordable, accessible,
secure arts and culture spaces. Cultural Services is working with the Heritage
Group on incorporating intangible heritage into Vancouver Heritage Register;
11. The City of Vancouver has a number of other important initiatives completed or
underway that intersect with cultural food assets and intangible cultural heritage,
including: The Chinatown Legacy Business Study; Spaces to Thrive:
Vancouver’s Social Infrastructure Strategy; a Chinatown Cultural Heritage Asset
Management Plan led by the Chinatown Transformation Team; the Downtown
Eastside Special Enterprise Pilot Program, a Commercial Tenant Assistance
Program through the Employment Lands and Economy Review; cultural redress
within the North False Creek Plan, including supporting work of both the Black
community and Chinatown community-led efforts around land trusts;
12. Municipal level policies and protections in other cities provide examples that
Vancouver should explore for protecting cultural food assets and other forms of
intangible cultural heritage:
a. Integrating tangible and intangible cultural heritage into Heritage
Protection processes. This should begin with community-led identification
of places or assets of community value, and tools for both protecting
and/or promoting those places. Community groups should be
appropriately resourced to do this work. Intangible heritage tools include
the co-development of intangible cultural heritage criteria, an intangible
cultural heritage registry, promotion of identified places, funding and
business supports, and more. Similar approaches exist in London’s

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 20
recent Grassroots Music Venues Rescue Plan, and the advocacy and
forward thinking which resulted in the protection of Toronto’s historic
Silver Dollar Room.
b. Developing protections for cultural food assets, assets of community
value and other forms of intangible cultural heritage within the
redevelopment process. This could include requiring new developments
to demonstrate adequate community consultation and show a plan for
preserving existing cultural food assets and other forms of intangible
cultural heritage. Examples include San Francisco’s Formula Business
(chain store) restrictions which require Conditional Use authorization for
all formula (chain) retail establishments within all Neighbourhood
Commercial Districts2, or the Agent of Change Principle as seen within
the Australian, Music Victoria 2014 Position Paper.3
c. The development of Municipal Cultural Districts or Zones (that could
include a Land Trust model). This would require working with community
partners to identify eligibility criteria for determining what qualifies as a
cultural district, as well as the particular needs for each district and the
appropriate mechanisms necessary for the protection and promotion of
intangible cultural heritage assets. Or could take a City-wide approach
that could be adapted for different contexts and communities. Examples
of this approach include the Bloor St. Culture Corridor in Toronto,
Mississauga’s Cultural Districts Implementation Plan, and San
Francisco’s Cultural Districts, as well as conversations already underway
in Vancouver’s Chinatown.
13. Intangible cultural heritage is traditional, contemporary and constantly adapting.
Due to challenges in defining which food assets are considered culturally
significant, the process and the mechanisms by which these assets are defined
and supported should be community-led and resourced appropriately; and
14. The vibrancy of Vancouver neighbourhoods is created by the diverse
communities who live and work here, and the small local businesses and
intangible cultural heritage that have shaped and enriched them over time. As the
city continues to change and grow, policies need to be in place to protect these
spaces, and ensure that Vancouver remains culturally diverse and welcoming to
the many communities that call it home.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back with recommendations on
policy changes within City of Vancouver jurisdiction for protecting and promoting
cultural food assets and other forms of intangible cultural heritage across
Vancouver;
2 Policy basis for formula businesses (chain stores) in San Francisco. https://sfplanning.org/project/policy-
basis-formula-retail-chain-stores
3https://www.musicvictoria.com.au/wp-content/uploads/bsk-pdf-
manager/2019/07/MV_positions_and_priorities2014.pdf

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 21
FURTHER THAT this be cross-departmental work between Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability (PDS) and Arts, Culture, and Community Services
(ACCS), building on existing city efforts, with the city’s Equity Framework as a
lens for where this work should be prioritized;
AND FURTHER THAT it consider policy approaches such as:
i. Updating Vancouver’s heritage protection processes to better account for
protecting cultural food assets and other forms of intangible cultural
heritage.
ii. Developing protections for cultural food assets and other forms of
intangible cultural heritage within the redevelopment process.
iii. Developing mechanisms for identifying and protecting significant cultural
assets through cultural zones or districts, cultural land trusts, or a special
cultural program that is accessible city-wide.
B. THAT Council directs staff to apply the city’s Equity Framework to other food
policy related work, including the promotion of cultural assets within the city’s
urban agriculture, small business incubation, and farmers market and community
food markets strategies.
C. THAT Council directs staff to work alongside relevant community organizations,
specifically working with underserved and equity-denied groups, to do research
and consultation regarding the implementation of an intangible cultural heritage
protection and promotion strategy.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion entitled “Placekeeping: Protecting and Supporting Cultural Food
Assets and Other Forms of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Vancouver” be referred to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on March 30, 2022, in order
to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Using the Capital Plan to Help Reach Housing Affordability Targets
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 22
1. Not enough housing that low income people can afford is being built in
Vancouver, including rental and social housing, as well as housing that is
suitable for families with children;
2. In its Healthy City Strategy (2014-2025), the City has committed to ensuring
affordable and supportive housing is available across all neighbourhoods;
3. According to, the City of Vancouver’s Rezoning Centre and Development
Permitting System and to Income distribution information sourced from the
Statistics Canada, Census 2016 between 2016 and 2021 the 39% of Vancouver
households with incomes under $50K could afford only 10% of the new housing
approved in the City;
4. According to the same data, between 2016 and 2021 68% of net new approved
units are affordable to the 40% of households who earn over $80K and have less
need than lower income households;
5. We desperately need non market, co-op and affordable housing for people
earning under $50K, $30K and $15K;
6. 17.5% of renters with an income of $0-$30,000 and 10.8% of renters with an
income of $30,0000-$50,000 are paying more than 30% of their income on rent
(Source: https://council.vancouver.ca/20171128/documents/rr1appendixa.pdf
page 10);
7. Traditionally the City supplies land for non market housing while senior
governments supply capital and operating costs if needed;
8. There is not enough City and/or non profit owned land in the city for the non
market housing that we need;
9. This means that non profit providers have to demolish existing affordable housing
in order to build more units at higher density on the same site;
10. As a result we lose existing affordable housing that could last and get fewer net
affordable units;
11. Senior government help is necessary to make housing affordable even when
land is provided but getting land is the first step; and
12. Building housing that low income workers can afford can help them live close to
their jobs and reduce green house gas emissions from commuting.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council ask staff to report back
in time for Capital Budget deliberations on what amount of money is needed in the
capital budget to acquire enough land to meet our housing affordability targets, taking
into consideration existing city land that is or could be used for social housing;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 23
FURTHER THAT all or part of this report back be in camera if needed, as it relates to
real estate transactions.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion entitled “Using the Capital Plan to Help Reach Housing Affordability
Targets” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting
on March 30, 2022, in order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Plebiscite to Measure Public Support for a 2030 Winter Olympic Bid Held
Concurrently with the 2022 Civic Election – WITHDRAWN
During the meeting, Councillor Hardwick withdrew the above motion.
6. Prioritizing Public Safety
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. Violent crime has increased in the City of Vancouver at an alarming rate in recent
years despite many people working from home, and many businesses,
restaurants, bars, retail outlets and publics spaces being closed to the public
during COVID19. This is in addition to a severe decline in tourist activity as per
health guidelines and requirements;
2. The Vancouver Police Department (VPD) has released statistics citing that each
day, on average, there are more than four reported unprovoked and random
stranger attacks on victims in the City of Vancouver. Example, the violent
stabbing of a twenty-five-year-old man in January 2022 at a Downtown coffee
shop left him in hospital with life-threatening injuries;
3. The media have reported incidents of brutal and violent assaults to people who
live, work in or are visiting Vancouver;
4. A motion brought forward in October 2020 to have a Special Council meeting
was amended. The resolution no longer included a special meeting of the
Council where the public could speak to City Council about the current state of
public safety and violent crime in the City of Vancouver;
5. A motion titled ‘Public Safety: Evaluating and Addressing Any Impacts of City of
Vancouver Actions on Neighbourhood Safety’ passed in October 2021, and

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 24
although work on this motion is underway, a roundtable discussion with
businesses hosted by the City of Vancouver took place in December 2021. This
roundtable discussion included the VPD and a memo to Council including a list of
recommendations, concerns and suggestions from businesses that have been
affected by violent shoplifting and property crime;
6. The actions of City Councils and municipal governments in cities including
Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles have perpetuated violent crime street
disorder. Ultimately, this has resulted in negative ramifications on the safety and
wellbeing of these cities, including impact on their economy and tourism;
7. Presentations at many Vancouver City Council meetings have included people
who have shared their stories and concerns about public safety;
8. Businesses are dealing with the burdens of violent shoplifting, broken doors and
windows, and associated trauma on their employees. This has also resulted in a
decline in business;
9. Bringing back a defeated motion to Council is permissible after 365 days and is
addressed in section 8.14 of the procedure bylaw and states:
(c) if the motion is made more than 365 days after the motion was
defeated, or in a new Council term, the motion may be made by any
Council member, regardless of how they voted or whether they voted in
the first instance.
10. Everyone deserves to feel safe in the City of Vancouver.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to organize a Special Meeting of Council, with a focus
on hearing presentations from residents, businesses and community delegations
and understanding concerns related to public safety and violent crime citywide.
B. THAT Council direct staff to:
i. Invite executive staff from the following city departments, agencies, and
provincial ministries, to participate in this Special Council meeting with a
presentation, including but not limited to:
− The City of Vancouver
− Homeless Outreach Team and Social Policy
− Streets and Sanitation
− The Vancouver Police Department and Vancouver Police Board
members
− The Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation
− Vancouver Coastal Health
− BC Housing
− Ministry of Mental Health and Addictions

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 25
− BC Prosecution Service
ii. Schedule this Special Council meeting on a weekday evening in
May 2022, advertised to the public, including on social media.
C. THAT Council direct staff, to request the Vancouver Police Department work
together with them to develop an action plan and report back to Council no later
than June 2022 with information and recommendations to address and mitigate
public safety concerns and issues.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the motion entitled “Prioritizing Public Safety” be referred to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on March 30, 2022, in order to hear
from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REFERENCES
1. Motion: Sustaining Public Safety as a Core Service in the City of Vancouver City of
Vancouver
https://council.vancouver.ca/20201007/documents/pspc14.pdf
Meeting Minutes:
https://council.vancouver.ca/20201007/documents/pspc20201007min.pdf
2. Motion: Public Safety: Evaluating and Addressing Any Impacts of City of Vancouver Actions
on Neighbourhood Safety City of Vancouver
https://council.vancouver.ca/20211005/documents/spec11.pdf
Meeting Minutes:
https://council.vancouver.ca/20211005/documents/spec20211005min.pdf
3. Procedure Bylaw-City of Vancouver
https://bylaws.vancouver.ca/12577c.PDF
4. More than four people attacked per day in Vancouver as 'stranger assaults' on the rise,
police say
CTV BC
https://bc.ctvnews.ca/more-than-4-people-attacked-per-day-in-vancouver-as-stranger-
assaults-on-the-rise-police-say-1.56320
Man Suffers life-threatening stab wounds after random attack in Vancouver coffee shop
Global News BC
https://globalnews.ca/news/8534708/coffee-shop-stabbing-vancouver/
Man suffers life-threatening stab wounds after random attack in Vancouver coffee shop - BC
| Globalnews.ca
5. MEMO: CMO - Memo to Mayor & Council - Business Roundtable on Property Crime - RTS
14744.pdf
City of Vancouver
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/12-16-2021-council-memo-council-memo-business-
roundtable-on-property-crime.pdf

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 26
6. VPD Investigates random assault at Downtown SkyTrain Station Vancouver Police
Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2022/03/18/vpd-investigates-random-assault-at-downtown-skytrain-
station/
7. VPD makes arrest after woman stabbed with a hypodermic needle Vancouver Police
Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2022/03/10/vpd-makes-arrest-after-woman-stabbed-with-hypodermic-
needle-2/
8. VPD Seeks witnesses, victims to violent attacks Vancouver Police Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2022/02/27/vpd-seeks-witnesses-victims-to-violent-attacks/
9. VPD re-arrests woman for second stranger attack in four days Vancouver Police
Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2022/02/06/vpd-re-arrests-woman-for-second-stranger-attack-in-four-
days/
10. VPD arrests suspect in NYE Stranger Attack Vancouver Police Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2022/01/25/vpd-arrests-suspect-in-nye-stranger-attack/
7. Strengthening the Conditions of Landlord Licensing in Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. Nearly 53% of private households by tenure in Vancouver are rented;
2. All businesses in Vancouver require a license to operate. This ensure business
locations are safe, meet land-use requirements, protect vulnerable populations,
and mitigate any potential noise or nuisance. While it is a common practice to
display a licence at place of business, the bylaw does not require it;
3. Regulations and conditions to operate a business in the City of Vancouver exist
under the Licence By-law (No. 4450) 1 and stipulate a number of specific
business and operational considerations:
a. Section 6(5) of the Licence By-law requires every City-issued licence to
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises; and
b. Section 19.1 of the bylaw defines “Landlords” and the requirement that
they (or their agents) must comply with the Residential Tenancy Act of
British Columbia. To rent a residential property for 30 days or more in the
City of Vancouver, operators require a Long-term Rental Property
Business License; 2
4. Offences and Penalties for violating the provisions of the License By-law (No.
4450) range from $250 - $10,000 per day per offence. Additionally under the
Vancouver Charter, the Chief License Inspector is empowered to suspend a
licence at any time if the holder of the license is convicted of any offence under

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 27
any bylaw of the City with respect to the business;
5. The City of Vancouver’s Open Data portal “Rental standards - current issues”
dataset lists licensed rental properties with five or more units that have current
(unresolved) by-law issues. Updated daily, there are over 400 buildings with
maintenance, health, or safety issues – several going back many months;
6. Most tenancies in Vancouver are covered under the B.C. Residential Tenancy
Act (RTA). The dispute resolution process to protect the interests of tenants and
landlords alike involves arbitration, enforcement, and compliance by way of the
Residential Tenancy Branch (RTB). This process can be onerous: the arbitration
process can take weeks or months, and tenants are not always aware of their
rights. In response, tenant advocacy groups including TRAC, Vancouver
Tenant’s Union, and the City’s own Renters Office provide support and
information for renters;
7. The vast majority of landlords in Vancouver are ethical, responsible, and
adherent to the Residential Tenancy Act. Notwithstanding that, recent examples
of business practices that might be considered inconsistent with the stated
conditions of the RTA, including:
a. Failing to post emergency repair contact information onsite per Sec 33(2)
RTA;
b. Failing to include landlord’s legal name and an address for service as part
of tenancy agreement, as required by law to serve certain legal
documents per Sec 13(2) RTA;
c. Misrepresenting conditions of suites and tenancy agreements; 3
d. Fixed “long term” term tenancies in contravention of vacation rental rules;
3,4
e. Renovictions and evictions under false pretenses; 5
f. Failure to maintain appliances or utilities; 6,7 and/or
g. Failure to hold a valid City of Vancouver license;
8. In February 2022, Council approved the motion “Improving the Effectiveness of
the Standards of Maintenance By-law” with an amendment that staff report back
on the possibilities of requiring SRO owners to place permanent plaques in their
lobbies that would state the mailing address for service of documents to
landlords, how to call 311 with repair and maintenance issues, contact info and
function of the Residential Tenancy Branch;
9. Notwithstanding the role of the RTA and RTB for protecting tenants in BC, the
City of Vancouver has a role to protect and support its residents;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 28
10. While respecting the supremacy of provincial tenancy acts, other local
governments in Canada including New Westminster, London Ontario, and
Montreal, Quebec are applying conditions to residential rental business licenses
to supplement and support their respective tenancy acts. New Westminster for
instance has added conditions to their licence to manage renoviction and punish
landlords that contravene the bylaw; 8 and
11. Despite the RTA, and despite assorted City of Vancouver polices and regulations
(including but not limited to Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy, Vancouver
Building By-law 12511, Single Room Accommodation By-law 8733, and License
By-law 4450) there remain opportunities and imperatives to better educate
renters about their rights under municipal and provincial policy.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirm the role of the City in licensing landlords is to ensure
residential rentals are safe, meet land-use requirements, protect vulnerable
populations, and mitigate any potential noise or nuisance.
B. THAT Council direct legal services to prepare appropriate amendments to the
License By-law (No. 4450) and Long-term Rental Property Business License
effective for 2023 licensing year, to direct landlords to display their City of
Vancouver Rental Property business licence in a location accessible and visible
to tenants and that the document explicitly includes:
a. Accurate and up-to-date name, contact information and address of the
landlord (or agent);
b. Notification that the adherence to the Residential Tenancy Act is a
condition of license; and
c. Identifies links to dispute resolution mechanisms and legal rights including
but not limited to the Residential Tenancy Act, Residential Tenancy
Branch, and Vancouver’s Renters Office.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion entitled “Strengthening the Conditions of Landlord Licensing in
Vancouver” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
meeting on March 30, 2022, in order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REFERENCES
1. https://bylaws.vancouver.ca/4450c.PDF
2. https://vancouver.ca/doing-business/long-term-rental-business-licence.aspx

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 29
3. https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/landlord-investigation-short-term-vacation-
rental-1.6000836
4. https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/housing-and-tenancy/residential-tenancies/policy-
guidelines/gl27.pdf
5. https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/vancouver-attempted-evictions-rejected-
1.5083931
6. https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/vancouver-renter-fights-payment-scheme-
1.6171443
7. https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/housing-tenancy/residential-tenancies/during-a-
tenancy/repairs-and-maintenance
8. https://www.newwestrecord.ca/local-news/new-westminster-to-fine-or-revoke-licences-of-
buildings-that-renovict-tenants-3093042
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Asking for a change in the Vancouver Charter to allow the City to Levy a
Progressive Property Tax
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 12, 2022, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
2. Rejecting the Increase to the 2021 Police Budget
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 12, 2022, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
3. 2022 Civic Election Ballot Question to Measure Vancouver Elector Support for a
2030 Winter Olympic Bid
Councillor Hardwick submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 12, 2022, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
4. Lock It or Lose It: Improving Secure Bike Infrastructure in the City of Vancouver
Councillor Fry submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 12, 2022, as a Council Members’
Motion.
5. Free Parking and Other Measures to Address Public Safety and the Revitalization
of Chinatown.
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 30
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 12, 2022, as a
Council Members’ Motion.
6. Supporting the Creative and Innovation Economy
Councillor Wiebe submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 12, 2022, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Mayor Stewart be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on March 29, 2022, from 3 pm to 6:30 pm;
FURTHER THAT Mayor Stewart be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on March 30, 2022, from 9:30 am to 12 pm.
B. THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on April 14, 2022, from 8 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for
personal reasons from meetings on April 26, 2022, from 6 pm onwards.
C. THAT Councillor Wiebe be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on March 29, 2022, from 10:30 am to 12:30 pm.
D. THAT Councillor De Genova be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings on March 31, 2022, from 2 pm to 6 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Additional Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Councillor Boyle be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business from meetings
on March 30, 2022, from 9:30 am to 12 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 31
3. Reconsideration of Vote on By-law 1
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council reconsider the vote on By-law 1 entitled, “A By-law to amend License
By-law No. 4450 regarding beverage cups.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The reconsideration having carried, the vote on By-law 1 was put and CARRIED, with
Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed.
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Motions from the Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee
Councillor Wiebe enquired on the status of two motions from the Persons with Disabilities
Advisory Committee related to the upcoming 2022 Civic Election, and asked how staff are
responding to the recommendations made by the Committee. The City Manager advised the
Elections team is working on it and agreed to follow up with staff and provide a response.
2. Derelict Boats in False Creek
Councillor Wiebe enquired about derelict boats in False Creek, noting the approaching water-
activity season while also recognizing there may be vulnerable populations on the boats, and
wondered how the City was responding. The City Manager noted the issue is complicated as
the water falls under various jurisdictions; however, staff and the various agencies are working
on it. The City Manager agreed to provide a further update.
3. Canada’s Climate Plan
Councillor Carr noted that the Federal Government released Canada’s Climate Plan, and
requested a report back on the implications of the plan, particularly in relation to building
retrofits, as well as any opportunities for the City. The City Manager noted staff have been
tracking the release of the plan and agreed to follow up and provide an update.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 29, 2022 32
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 7:43 pm.
* * * * *