SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
(BUSINESS LICENCE HEARING)
SEPTEMBER 10, 2025
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, September
10, 2025, at 9:41am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose of holding a
Business Licence Hearing to determine whether to deny, grant, or grant with conditions the
application made by Keith Rose (the “Applicant”) for a 2025 business licence (“Business
Licence”) for a short-term rental accommodation at 643 E 13th Avenue, Unit 2. This Special
Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by Part 14 of
the Procedure By-law and the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Councillor Pete Fry, Chair* (Declared Conflict of Interest)
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Chair
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Sean Orr*
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Julie Emmerson, Meeting Coordinator
Cassia Nasralla, Meeting Coordinator
Cheryll Chingcuangco, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also acknowledged the City of Vancouver’s team members who work hard every day
to help make our city and incredible place to live, work, and play.
* * * * *
Following Roll Call, Councillor Fry rose to declare a conflict of interest under Section 145.2(2)(b)
of the Vancouver Charter, due to personal relations with the Applicant.
Subsequently, the Meeting Coordinator, called on Councillor Orr, the Alternate, to the Business
Licence Hearing panel, to maintain quorum for the remainder of the hearing. After confirming
Councillor Orr’s presence, Councillor Fry rescinded the Chair and left the room for the
remainder of the hearing.
* * * * *
Following Councillor Fry’s departure, the Meeting Coordinator called upon Iain Dixon, Legal
Counsel for the City of Vancouver, to provide remarks.

Special Council Meeting (Business Licence Hearing)
Minutes, Wednesday, September 10, 2025 2
Iain Dixon advised the panel that the Applicant indicated they had not received the evidence
package and therefore the Applicant requests the hearing be rescheduled to a future date. Iain
Dixon agreed to the rescheduling and recommended that the hearing be adjourned.
* * * * *
Subsequently, Councillor Kirby-Yung rose on a point of parliamentary inquiry to ask if the panel
needed to appoint a Chair before moving a motion to adjourn. The Meeting Coordinator
confirmed that the panel would need to move a motion to appoint a Chair for the duration of the
proceedings.
Thereafter, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Business Licence Hearing panel appoint Councillor Kirby-Yung, Chair for the
remainder of the hearing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
At this point in the hearing, Councillor Kirby-Yung assumed the role of the Chair.
* * * * *
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Business Licence Hearing adjourned at 9:46 am.
* * * * *