SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
(BUSINESS LICENCE HEARING)
NOVEMBER 23, 2021
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
November 23, 2021, at 9:31 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose
of holding a Business Licence Hearing to determine whether or not the business licence
(“Business Licence”) issued to Al Karim Khaki/Planet Rock (the “Licencee”) ought to be
revoked. This Special Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized by
Part 14 of the Procedure By-law and the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Chair
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. Al Karim Khaki/Planet Rock
Business Licence: 21-143578
The Business Licence Hearing Panel had before it for consideration a Notice of Hearing dated
November 2, 2021, an Evidence Brief, prepared by the City of Vancouver’s Legal Department,
which contained the following material (on file in the City Clerk’s Office) and the evidence of
witnesses:
Tab Description
1 Notice of Hearing dated October 13, 2021
2 2011 Business Licence suspension
3 Screenshots of Planet Rock’s website

Special Council - Business Licence Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 23, 2021 2
Tab Description
4 Chronology received from Vancouver Coastal Health
5 Reports of Complaints, received from Vancouver Coastal Health
6 Vancouver Police Department investigation report dated March 10, 2021
7 Business Licence Practice Meeting Notes from meeting of July 15, 2021
Letter from Chief Licence Inspector recommending Business Licence revocation
8
dated October 1, 2021
9 Vancouver Coastal Health Vapor Retail Inspection Report of October 1, 2021
10 Vancouver Coastal Health Nexus Issue: Compliance Check report of October 5, 2021
Robert LeBlanc, City Prosecutor, Legal Department, was present on behalf of the City of
Vancouver (City), Alice Huynh, Barrister and Solicitor, was present on behalf of the Licencee
and was accompanied by Al Karim Khaki, the Licencee.
Mr. LeBlanc provided opening remarks and explained the reasons for holding this hearing as set
out in Tab 8 of the Evidence Brief and sections 275 and 278 of the Vancouver Charter.
Specifically, that the Licencee has been operating the business with a total disregard for the
laws and acts required to operate a business thus creating a drain on City and Police resources,
and that the Licencees’ business practices are harmful and dangerous to the health and safety
of youths.
Mr. LeBlanc called the following City witnesses to provide testimony:
1. Kevin Kouris, Supervisor - Tobacco Enforcement Program, Vancouver Coastal
Health
2. Constable Timothy Rich, Emergency Response Section, Vancouver Police
Department
3. Sarah Hicks, Chief Licence Inspector, Development, Buildings & Licensing
Mr. LeBlanc directed questions to the City witnesses, beginning with the first witness.
The Licencees’ Counsel began cross-examination of the first City witness and, during questions,
it was determined that evidence in regard to a compliant check of the business premises on
April 29, 2021, was missing from the Evidence Package.
* * * * *
The Business Licence Hearing recessed at 10:18 am and reconvened at 10:26 am.
* * * * *

Special Council - Business Licence Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 23, 2021 3
Following the recess, Mr. LeBlanc recommended the first City witness stand down to locate the
missing evidence and that the Panel continue with the evidence of the remaining City witnesses.
Mr. LeBlanc directed questions to the remaining City witnesses, followed by cross-examination
by the Licencees’ Counsel.
During questions, Mr. LeBlanc advised that the missing evidence regarding the compliant check
of the business premises on April 29, 2021, had been located and was submitted (on file in the
City Clerk’s Office).
* * * * *
The Business Licence Hearing recessed 11:15 am and reconvened at 11:21 am.
* * * * *
Following the recess, the Licencees’ Counsel continued to cross-examine the first City witness.
Following cross-examination of the first City witness, the Licencees’ Counsel provided opening
remarks, beginning with an overview of the business. Ms. Huynh submitted that the Licencee
was unable to attend the business premises very often due to health issues and, as a result,
entrusted the day-to-day operations to the employees. Ms. Huynh pointed out that during the
periods the Licencee was absent from the business the illegal incidents occurred. Ms. Huynh
added that the Licencee is well aware that the sale of vape products to minors is illegal and that
the Licencee, being a father, would never sell vape products to minors. Ms. Huynh questioned
the validity of the complaints, noting they could have been made by competitors or disgruntled
youth who were denied vape products in the past. In summary, Ms. Huynh advised that the
Licencee is sorry for the incidents that occurred, has hired a Manager to oversee the day-to-day
operations of the business and has ceased with the order of and sale of vape products.
* * * * *
At 11:52 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
The Licencee’s Counsel called Julia Patch, Manager, Planet Rock, and directed questions to
the witness, followed by cross-examination by Mr. LeBlanc.
Panel members directed questions to the above-noted witness.
Mr. LeBlanc provided closing submissions, noting the ongoing activities at the business
premises, not just the sale of vaping products to minors but the sale of unlicensed, unregulated

Special Council - Business Licence Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 23, 2021 4
cannabis products, has resulted in a resource-intensive undercover operation leading to the
seizure of illegal drug products. Mr. LeBlanc added that this is a pattern of illegal behaviour and
that the Licencee, an absentee business owner, has been deferring the operation of the
business to the employees and imposing poor business practices on to them. Mr. LeBlanc noted
that two of the sales of illegal products were directly from the Licencee, which shows they were
complicit in these activities. In summary, Mr. LeBlanc advised the Panel of its role at this
hearing, to determine whether or not to revoke the business licence issued to the Licencee.
The Licencee provided closing submissions, noting regret for the illegal activities that took place
at the business premises and that, due to health issues, they relied on the employees and past
managers to ensure the business was being operated properly. The Licencee advised that due
to the illegal incidents that occurred, a new manager has been hired and the business will no
longer sell vape products.
The Licencee’s Counsel provided closing submissions and requested the Panel consider
overturning the decision of the Chief Licence Inspector rather than revoking the business
licence as Planet Rock does not pose a safety risk to youths or the community at large since the
business no longer sells vape or cannabis products. Ms. Huynh reiterated that, due to health
issues, the Licencee unfortunately relied on the employees to operate the business, but has
since learned that is not an option. Ms. Huynh suggested that should the Panel intend to provide
some punitive measures against the Licencee, that they consider a two-week suspension at the
most as a lengthier suspension will be detrimental to the business. In summary, Ms. Huynh
advised that the Licencee is hopeful for an opportunity to show that they have remedied the
situation to ensure that Planet Rock continues to contribute to the character of the community
and that it does not end up another empty storefront along Granville Street.
PANEL MEMBERS DISCUSSION
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the recommendation of the Chief Licence Inspector to revoke the business licence
(“Business Licence”) issued to Al Karim Khaki/Planet Rock (the “Licencee”), be upheld
and the Business Licence revoked, on the basis that:
• there is an obvious pattern of non-compliance, multiple misrepresentations by the
Licencee, multiple failed compliance checks by Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH),
multiple sales to minors, and the disproportionate use of City of Vancouver and
VCH resources with regards to enforcement;
• the facts not only demonstrate the sale of products to minors, but also the sale of
products for which the Licencee did not have the required business licence; and
• the Licencee appears to abdicate responsibility for the operation of the business
to the employees.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07841)

Special Council - Business Licence Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, November 23, 2021 5
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Special Council meeting adjourned at 12:19 pm.
* * * * *