REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 3, 2021
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, November 3, 2021, at 9:38 am in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business from 12:30 pm onwards)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry, Vice-Chair
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business from 10:30 am to 1 pm)
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged that we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish,
and Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 03, 2021 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Item 2, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
1. Climate Emergency Action Plan Annual Update
Doug Smith, Director, Sustainability Group, introduced the item and along with Brad Badelt,
Assistant Director, Sustainability Group, and Matt Horne, Climate Policy Manager, Sustainability
Group, provided a presentation. Subsequently, along with staff from Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability, Engineering Services, and Real Estate and Facilities Management,
responded to questions.
* * * * *
Due to technical issues, the Committee recessed at 10:20 am and reconvened at 10:35 am.
* * * * *
At 10:38 am, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee be permitted to ask a second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The presentation on Item 1 entitled “Climate Emergency Action Plan Annual Update”, was
received for information.
2. Renewal of the Heritage Energy Retrofit Grant Program
October 5, 2021
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT pursuant to section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council approve a
money grant of $526,000 (the “Grant”) to the Vancouver Heritage Foundation to
renew the Heritage Energy Retrofit Grant program. The source of funding is the
Building Energy Retrofit Fund approved by Council in 2016 (RTS No. 11239),
with additional funds from the Sustainability Reserve.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 03, 2021 3
B. THAT, pursuant to and for the purposes of section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver
Charter, Council deems the Vancouver Heritage Foundation to be contributing to
the welfare of Vancouver.
C. THAT the Grant made to the Vancouver Heritage Foundation be subject to the
Vancouver Heritage Foundation executing and delivering to the City of
Vancouver a grant letter agreement received from the City of Vancouver.
D. THAT the grant letter agreement executed by the Vancouver Heritage
Foundation be on the terms generally outlined in the Report dated
October 5, 2021, entitled “Renewal of the Heritage Energy Retrofit Grant
Program”, and otherwise satisfactory to the City of Vancouver’s General
Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and the Director of Legal
Services.
E. THAT, on behalf of the City of Vancouver, the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability, be authorized to execute any grant letter
agreement governing the terms of the Grant.
F. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A and B above
unless and until an actual grant letter agreement is executed and delivered by
the City and the Vancouver Heritage Foundation.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A AND B BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 07772)
3. Interim Update: Accessibility Strategy, Phase 1 Development
October 22, 2021
Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services, introduced the item
and along with Karen Lai, Social Planner, Social Policy and Projects Division, provided a
presentation.
* * * * *
At 11:57 am, during the staff presentation, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past noon in order to finish hearing the staff
presentation.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 03, 2021 4
The Committee recessed at 12:13 pm and reconvened at 1:17 pm.
* * * * *
Wilma Clarke, Assistant Director, and Karen Lai, Social Planner, within the Social Policy and
Projects Division, responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 1:35 pm, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee be permitted to ask a second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive this interim report, as outlined in the Report dated
October 22, 2021, entitled “Interim Update: Accessibility Strategy, Phase 1
Development”, as an update of work to date on the development of Phase I of
the Accessibility Strategy, including:
i. the draft accessibility commitment statements; and
ii. the attached engagement summary.
B. THAT Council provide provisional approval of the proposed Accessibility
Commitment Statements, subject to final community engagement.
C. THAT Council approve the proposed Action While Planning priority actions that
can be achieved within existing resources for immediate implementation.
D. THAT Council receive for consideration the proposed Action While Planning
priority actions that require additional funding of $200,000 which has been
identified as a potential investment for evaluation as part of the 2022 Operating
Budget process.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07770)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 03, 2021 5
4. Plant-Based Purchasing Savings for City and Climate (Member’s Motion B.3)
At the Council meeting on November 2, 2021, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on November 3, 2021, in order to
hear from speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Anthropogenic climate change is forcing governments and systems to consider
how human behaviour and consumption can be modified in order to help meet
the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2018 target to limit
global warming to 1.5 °C;
2. The IPCC has advised that a plant-based diet can help fight climate change,
specifically as the West's high consumption of meat and dairy produce is fuelling
global warming;
Livestock farming (the management and breeding of domestic, livestock, or farm
animals for the purpose of obtaining their meat and products) is estimated to take
up around 30% of the earth’s surface and contribute 18% of all global
greenhouse gas emissions;
3. The City of Vancouver declared a Climate Emergency in January 2019, and on
November 17, 2020, Council approved the Climate Emergency Action Plan
(CEAP). The Big Moves articulated in the Plan focus on zero emissions in
transportation, heating systems, and construction;
The CEAP Report acknowledges one main lever to reduce food system
emissions is adopting diets low in animal products (particularly beef, pork and
dairy) and working towards a low-carbon food system for Vancouver will require:
a. Identifying potential changes to City procurement and practices through
the new Green Operations Plan; and
b. Actions to support urban agriculture as one means of increasing
opportunities for sustainable food production and the harvesting and
availability of plant-based foods;
4. The City of Vancouver’s Healthy City Strategy articulates the goal of Feeding
Ourselves Well: through a healthy, just, and sustainable food system;
5. Plant-based diets are increasingly seen as a healthier option by Canadians, as
excessive meat consumption has been shown to increase saturated fat intake
and is linked to obesity and a variety of diseases;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 03, 2021 6
6. Plant-based diets are driving profits and growth in the grocery and food services
industry1 and creating a variety of local business success stories. Vancouver is
consistently named as a global plant-based foodie capital2;
7. Vancouver’s status as an economic centre for plant-based products is growing.
Setting targets for plant-based options in the City’s food procurement can send a
powerful signal to the food production and processing industries of further growth
potential;
8. The Vancouver Humane Society (VHS) report Increasing Plant-Based
Purchasing at the Municipal Level3 is urging the City of Vancouver to incorporate
meat-reduction efforts into the City’s greater ecological objectives;
In the report, VHS has conducted an analysis of the City of Vancouver’s current
food purchasing activities including: Vancouver Civic Theatres concessions, City
event catering contracts, low-cost meal programs, Parks Board concession
services and golf course food service, and the Vancouver School Board’s
Food4School program; and
9. The Vancouver Humane Society analysis has proposed three alternative City of
Vancouver procurement/replacement options for a 20% reduction in animal-
based products. Implementing just one of these options would save up to
$99,000 in procurement costs, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more
than 500 tonnes. Additionally, the replacement of 20% animal-based options with
plant-based options is projected to increase sales revenues by 14% ($400,000)
and save the equivalent of nearly 400 farmed animals a year.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council declare that plant-based procurement can result in cost and
budget efficiencies, help to promote healthier choices for Vancouverites, support
local plant-based businesses, meet demonstrated food and dining trends, and
respond to the Climate Emergency.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back with policy on how a partial shift to plant-
based procurement can save the City on costs and greenhouse gas emissions,
and consider one or all of the Vancouver Humane Society proposed policy
change options, including:
a. a 20% reduction in all animal-based products;
b. a 20% reduction in the most cost-intensive animal-based products; or
c. a 20% reduction in the most carbon-intensive animal-based products.
C. THAT Council direct staff to share the report back with Vancouver Board of Parks
and Recreation, Vancouver Economic Commission, and Vancouver School Board
for information.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 03, 2021 7
1. Plant-based goes mainstream
https://ccentral.ca/plant-based-goes-mainstream
2. Vancouver ranked one of the world's most popular cities for vegans
https://biv.com/article/2021/01/vancouver-ranked-one-worlds-most-popular-cities-vegans
3. Vancouver Humane Society report
Increasing Plant-Based Purchasing at the Municipal Level (PDF)
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07771)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 2:33 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 3, 2021
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, November 3, 2021,
at 2:34 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Melissa De Genova (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business from 12:30 pm onwards)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, November 3, 2021
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Climate Emergency Action Plan Annual Update
2. Renewal of the Heritage Energy Retrofit Grant Program
3. Interim Update: Accessibility Strategy, Phase 1 Development
4. Plant-Based Purchasing Savings for City and Climate (Member’s Motion B.3)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 3, 2021 2
Items 1 to 4
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of November 3, 2021, as contained in items 1 to 4,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 2:35 pm.
* * * * *