SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 5, 6 AND 7, 2021
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, October 5, 2021, at
11:04 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently the meeting reconvened
on Wednesday, October 6, 2021, at 9:35 am, and on Thursday, October 7, 2021, at 3:15 pm.
This Special Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized by Part 14 of
the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart* (Leave of Absence, Civic Business –
October 6, 2021, from 9 am to 12 pm, Civic Business –
October 7, 2021, from 3 pm to 6 pm)
Deputy Mayor Sarah Kirby-Yung* – (Leave of
Absence, Personal Reasons – October 6, 2021, from 8 pm to
10pm, Civic Business – October 7, 2021, from 3 pm to 6 pm)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle*
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Melissa De Genova* (Leave of Absence, Civic
Business – October 6, 2021, from 12:30 pm to 5:30 pm)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Colleen Hardwick*
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager – October 5, 6, and 7, 2021
Kevin Levitt, Deputy City Manager – October 7, 2021
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol –
October 5 and 6, 2021
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk – October 7, 2021
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 2
1. Streamlining Rental Around Local Shopping Areas - Amendments to the
C-2, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1 Zones and Creation of New Rental Zones for Use in
Future Rezoning Applications in Surrounding Low Density Areas Under the
Secured Rental Policy
September 3, 2021
Dan Garrison, Assistant Director, Housing Policy, Planning, Urban Design & Sustainability, and
along with staff from Planning, Urban Design & Sustainability, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, be
instructed to make an application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law
as follows, to come into force and take effect on January 15, 2022:
i. in Section 2, add a definition for:
(a) “residential rental tenure” to enable zoning for rental housing;
ii. amend the C-2, C-2B, C-2C, and C-2C1 district schedules to:
(a) allow for six-storey mixed-use buildings development where the
entire residential portion of the building is secured as residential
rental tenure, in certain areas of the districts as identified in the
draft by-law; and
(b) improve local shopping areas by requiring a minimum amount of
commercial retail use and by allowing an additional 2.2 m. in
overall building height for greater floor-to-floor ceiling heights in
commercial retail units; and
(c) provide a consistent wider sidewalk in all local shopping areas by
requiring an increased setback from the street for all commercial
and mixed-use developments (both rental and strata).
iii. add new rental district schedules, RR-1, RR-2, RR-2B and RR-2C and
RR-3A and RR-3B, to be utilized for rental housing rezoning applications,
including in eligible RS and RT areas;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally as set out in Appendix A of the Referral
Report dated September 3, 2021, entitled “Streamlining Rental Around Local
Shopping Areas - Amendments to the C-2, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1 Zones and
Creation of New Rental Zones for Use in Future Rezoning Applications in
Surrounding Low Density Areas Under the Secured Rental Policy”, for
consideration at Public Hearing.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 3
B. THAT, if the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law as
described in A(iii) above is referred to Public Hearing, then an application to
amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for the RR-1,
RR-2A, RR-2B and RR-2C and RR-3A and RR-3B district schedules be referred
to the same Public Hearing, along with the related amendments to the Noise
Control By-law, Parking By-law, and Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in
Appendix B of the Referral Report dated September 3, 2021, entitled
“Streamlining Rental Around Local Shopping Areas - Amendments to the C-2, C-
2B, C-2C and C-2C1 Zones and Creation of New Rental Zones for Use in Future
Rezoning Applications in Surrounding Low Density Areas Under the Secured
Rental Policy”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, be instructed to bring forward for Council’s consideration new
associated C-2, C-2B, C-2C, and C-2C1 Residential Rental Tenure Design
Guidelines (to apply to mixed-use rental buildings over 4 storeys), generally as
set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated September 3, 2021, entitled
“Streamlining Rental Around Local Shopping Areas - Amendments to the C-2, C-
2B, C-2C and C-2C1 Zones and Creation of New Rental Zones for Use in Future
Rezoning Applications in Surrounding Low Density Areas Under the Secured
Rental Policy”.
D. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, be instructed to bring forward for Council’s consideration amended
C-2 Design Guidelines and C-2B, C-2C, and C-2C1 Design Guidelines (to apply
to all commercial and mixed-use buildings), generally as set out in Appendix D of
the Referral Report dated September 3, 2021, entitled “Streamlining Rental
Around Local Shopping Areas - Amendments to the C-2, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1
Zones and Creation of New Rental Zones for Use in Future Rezoning
Applications in Surrounding Low Density Areas Under the Secured Rental
Policy”.
E. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, be instructed to bring forward for Council’s consideration new
Rental District Schedules Design Guidelines (to apply to new rental rezoning
applications), generally as set out in Appendix E of the Referral Report dated
September 3, 2021, entitled “Streamlining Rental Around Local Shopping Areas -
Amendments to the C-2, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1 Zones and Creation of New
Rental Zones for Use in Future Rezoning Applications in Surrounding Low
Density Areas Under the Secured Rental Policy”,.
F. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law as described in Recommendation A above, Council approve
consequential amendments to the Secured Rental Policy, generally as set out in
Appendix F of the Referral Report dated September 3, 2021, entitled
“Streamlining Rental Around Local Shopping Areas - Amendments to the C-2, C-

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 4
2B, C-2C and C-2C1 Zones and Creation of New Rental Zones for Use in Future
Rezoning Applications in Surrounding Low Density Areas Under the Secured
Rental Policy”,.
G. THAT C though F above also be referred to Public Hearing at the same time as A
and B above.
H. THAT A through G above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
ii. THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
iii. THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07662)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
2. 2022 Licence Fees and Report Back on Cannabis Retail Licence Fee
September 24, 2021
Sarah Hicks, Chief Licence Inspector, Development, Buildings and Licensing, provided an
overview of the report and along with Andrea Law, General Manager, Development, Buildings
and Licensing, and Sarah Kapoor, Director, Financial Planning and Analysis, Finance, Risk and
Supply Chain Management, responded to questions.
* * * * *
On October 5, 2021, during questions to staff, Council recessed at 11:59 am and reconvened at
3:22 pm.
* * * * *
Council heard from three speakers in support who also expressed concerns with other various
aspects related to the report recommendations.
Sarah Hicks, Chief Licence Inspector, Development, Buildings and Licensing, responded to
additional questions.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 5
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
A. THAT Council approve in principle the following fee adjustments:
a. A phased reduction to the cannabis retail licence fee in Schedule A of the
License By-law No. 4450, as described in the Report dated September
24, 2021, entitled “2022 Licence Fees and Report Back on Cannabis
Retail Licence Fee”, starting with a fee of $13,500 in 2022;
b. That staff bring forward recommendations for a reduced cannabis retail
licence fee for consideration by Council in setting fees for 2023, including
considerations for a cannabis retail fee of $5,000;
c. The inclusion of a $2,500 cannabis retail application fee in Schedule B of
the License By-law No. 4450, as described in the above-noted report, to
provide a recommendation on a BC Liquor and Cannabis Regulation
Branch (LCRB) cannabis retail store licence application;
d. A 4.78% increase to the live-aboard business licence fee in Schedule A of
the License By-law No. 4450, as described in the above-noted report, in
accordance with Council policy;
e. A 3.8% increase to all other fees collected under the License By-law
No. 4450, Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066 and Animal Control By-law
No. 9150;
f. An additional 1.2% increase to the same fees collected under the License
By-law No. 4450 and Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066 to add staff
capacity to address the licensing backlog; and
g. A $1 increase to the adoption fees for select animals in Schedule A of the
Animal Control By-law No. 9150, as described in the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the License By-law No. 4450, Vehicles for Hire By-law
No. 6066 and Animal Control By-law No. 9150, generally in accordance with the
by-laws attached in Appendix A, B and C, of the above-noted report, to be
effective January 1, 2022.
B. THAT Council approve in principle a housekeeping amendment to the License
By-law No. 4450 to align with language used by the Liquor and Cannabis
Regulation Branch (LCRB) for provisions related to person capacity at liquor
serving establishments;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the License By-law No. 4450, generally in accordance
with the by-law attached in Appendix A of the Report dated September 24, 2021,
entitled “2022 Licence Fees and Report Back on Cannabis Retail Licence Fee”,
to be effective immediately.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07663)

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 6
3. Contract Award for the Provision of Food Services for Evelyne Saller Centre
August 27, 2021
Jody Bourgeau, Director, Non-Market Housing, Arts, Culture and Community Services, and
Alexander Ralph, Director, Supply Chain Management, and Chief Procurement Officer,
responded to questions.
Council heard from one speaker who expressed concerns with other various aspects related to
the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, City’s Director of
Legal Services, and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer, and enter into a
contract with Aramark Canada Ltd., for the provision of food services for Evelyne
Saller Centre, for a term of three (3) years, with the option to extend for six (6)
additional one (1) year terms, with an estimated contract value of $5,252,538,
plus applicable taxes over the initial three-year term, to be funded through BC
Housing as per the Emergency Shelter Program Support Services Agreement
(BC Housing File # 91251-02/4453, dated September 2, 2020).
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services be authorized to execute on
behalf of the City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in this resolution.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07664)
4. Appointment of Childcare Operators, Lease Approvals, and Approval of Childcare
Grants
September 3, 2021
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council appoint the following non-profit organizations to be the operators
for new licensed group childcare centres:
i. Association of Neighbourhood Houses of British Columbia (ANHBC) to be
the non-profit operator for the new licensed group child care centre that
will be co-located on the rooftop level of the new building to be built as a
seismic replacement of the existing Eric Hamber Secondary School at
5025 Willow Street, legally described as: PID 009-348-654; Block 897,
District Lot 526, Plan 10770, subject to the City being granted a long-term
lease of the childcare facility by The Board of Education of School District
No. 39 (Vancouver) (VBE);

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 7
ii. Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) to be the non-profit
operator for the new licensed group childcare centre to be located within
a separate air space parcel to be owned by the City on the fifth floor of
the new Oakridge Civic Centre located at 650 West 41st Avenue, legally
described as: PID 003-128-687; Lot 7, Block 892, District Lot 526, Group
1 New Westminster District Plan 20424 except Air Space Plan 20425 and
Plan EPP85694;
iii. Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) to be the non-profit
operator for the new licensed group child care centre that will be co-
located with a new social housing development and a school at the Coal
Harbour School, Childcare & Affordable Housing project at 482 & 488
Broughton Street and 1380 West Hastings Street (the “Coal Harbour
Project”) legally described as: PID 031-325-017, Lot A of the Public
Harbour of Burrard Inlet Group 1 New Westminster District Plan
EPP104419.
B. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute the following lease agreements for the three new licensed childcare
centres with the non-profit operators recommended in A above:
a. Sublease with Association of Neighbourhood Houses of British Columbia
(ANHBC) as the subtenant and childcare operator for the upcoming
childcare facility at Eric Hamber Secondary School;
b. Lease with Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) as the
tenant and childcare operator for the upcoming childcare facility at
Oakridge Civic Centre; and
c. Lease with Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) as the
tenant and childcare operator for the upcoming childcare facility at the
Coal Harbour Project;
on the following basic terms, and upon such other terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Director of Real Estate Services, the Director of Legal
Services, and the Managing Director, Social Policy and Projects:
Term and Renewals: Five (5) years with two (2) options to renew, each for
a further five (5) years (fifteen (15) years total possible term).
Each renewal option is conditional upon the City being satisfied that
Association of Neighbourhood Houses of British Columbia (ANHBC) and
Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC), respectively, have the
capacity to operate, maintain and program the respective licensed
childcare centres in accordance with the lease terms and the public
service requirements for the duration of the renewal term contemplated.
Total Rent: Ten dollars ($10.00) for each term or renewal term, inclusive
of payment in lieu of property taxes, payable in advance.
Form of Lease: The sublease with Association of Neighbourhood Houses
of British Columbia (ANHBC) as the subtenant and childcare operator for

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 8
Eric Hamber Secondary is to be based on the Precedent Childcare
Sublease (VBE Lands) and includes a Service Level Agreement, as noted
in Appendix B of the Report dated September 3, 2021, entitled
“Appointment of Childcare Operators, Lease Approvals, and Approval of
Childcare Grants”, in which the City provides support for the maintenance
of all major building systems. The lease to Vancouver Society of
Children’s Centres (VSOCC) as the tenant and childcare operator at the
new Oakridge Civic Centre and at the Coal Harbour Project are both to be
based on the Precedent Childcare Lease (VSOCC), and each will include
a Service Level Agreement, as noted in Appendices C and D of the same
report, in which the City provides support for the maintenance of all major
building systems.
For all sites, the rent under the leases will be below the applicable market rate
and include payment in lieu of property taxes. Therefore, B(a) to B(c) above
constitute grants valued at the estimated amounts listed below, based on the first
year of each term:
d. Sublease with Association of Neighbourhood Houses of British Columbia
(ANHBC) for the childcare facility at Eric Hamber Secondary constitutes a
grant valued at approximately $297,000 per annum;
e. Lease with Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) for the
childcare facility at Oakridge Civic Centre constitutes a grant valued at
approximately $310,000 per annum; and
f. Lease with Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) for the
childcare facility at the Coal Harbour Project constitutes a grant valued at
approximately $295,000 per annum.
C. THAT Council approve the following one-time grants for operational start-up
costs for the new licensed childcare facilities, to be disbursed over two years:
a. Up to $138,000 to Association of Neighbourhood Houses of British
Columbia (ANHBC) for the childcare facility at Eric Hamber Secondary
School;
b. Up to $138,000 to Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) for
the childcare facility at Oakridge Civic Centre; and
c. Up to $130,000 to Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) for
the childcare facility at the Coal Harbour Project.
Source of funds: Funding for the start-up grants will be included as part of the
annual budget process for childcare start up grants;
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by
Council’s adoption of B or C above unless and until all legal documentation has
been executed and delivered by the respective parties.
D. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute a new lease with Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) to

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 9
be the licensed non-profit operator and tenant at Bayshore Gardens Children’s
Centre at #200 - 581 Cardero Street, legally described as: PID 026-647-575; Air
Space Parcel 4 of the Public Harbour of Burrard Inlet Air Space Plan BCP23313,
on the following basic terms, and upon such other terms and conditions to the
satisfaction of the Director of Real Estate Services, the Director of Legal
Services, and the Managing Director of Social Policy and Projects:
Term and Renewals: Five (5) years with two (2) options to renew, each for
a further five (5) years (fifteen (15) years total possible term).
Each renewal option is conditional upon the City being satisfied that
Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres (VSOCC) has the capacity to
operate, maintain and program the licensed childcare centre in
accordance with the lease terms and the public service requirements for
the duration of the renewal term contemplated.
Total Rent: Ten dollars ($10.00) for each term or renewal term, inclusive
of payment in lieu of property taxes, payable in advance.
Form of Lease: The lease to Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres
(VSOCC) as the tenant and operator of the Bayshore Gardens Children’s
Centre is to be based on the Precedent Childcare Lease (VSOCC) and
includes a Service Level Agreement, as noted in Appendix E of the
Report dated September 3, 2021, entitled “Appointment of Childcare
Operators, Lease Approvals, and Approval of Childcare Grants”, in which
the City provides support for the maintenance of all major building
systems.
As the rent under the lease for Vancouver Society of Children’s Centres
(VSOCC) will be below the applicable market rate and includes payment in lieu of
property taxes, D above constitutes a grant valued at approximately $168,000
per annum, based on the first year of the term;
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by
Council’s adoption of D above unless and until all legal documentation has been
executed and delivered by the respective parties.
E. THAT Council approve the following annual allocations for maintenance of the
below childcare facilities for the duration of the recommended lease terms, (five
(5) years with two options to renew):
a. Up to $59,418 annually for the childcare facility at Eric Hamber
Secondary;
b. Up to $61,998 annually for the childcare facility at Oakridge Civic Centre;
c. Up to $31,200 annually for the childcare facility at the Coal Harbour
Project; and
d. Up to $25,000 annually for the childcare facility at Bayshore Gardens.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 10
Source of funds: Funding for facility maintenance will be considered as part of
the annual operating budget process;
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by
Council’s adoption of E above unless and until all legal documentation has been
executed and delivered by the respective parties.
F. THAT Council approve a one-time grant of $25,000 to Hudson Child Care Society
(HCCS) for organizational development work related to alignment with the
childcare hub model, source of funds the 2021 Childcare Grants Budget.
G. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services, to negotiate and execute agreements to disperse the grants described
in C and F above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such other terms
and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts, Culture and
Community Services, and Director, Legal Services;
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by
Council’s adoption of B, C, D and F above unless and until all legal
documentation has been executed and delivered by the respective parties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND B, C, D and F,
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 07665)
5. Climate Emergency Parking Program
September 15, 2021
Paul Storer, Director, Transportation, Engineering Services, and Doug Smith, Director, Long
Range and Strategic Planning, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided an overview
of the report.
* * * * *
On October 5, 2021, at 5:42 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete hearing the staff
presentation.
CARRIED AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 11
* * * * *
On October 5, 2021, after hearing the staff presentation, Council recessed at 5:18 pm and
reconvened on October 6, 2021, at 9:35 am in order to continue with questions of staff on
Item 5.
* * * * *
Subsequently, on October 6, 2021, at 9:38 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council amend the rules of the Procedure By-law in order to hear the speakers
before asking questions of staff.
CARRIED AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
On October 6, 2021, at 11:55 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council extend the meeting past noon in order to finish asking questions of
speaker 22.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Subsequently, during the hearing from speakers on October 6, 2021, Council recessed at
12:02 pm and reconvened at 1:02 pm.
* * * * *
Council heard from 26 speakers in support, 11 speakers opposed, and three speakers who
expressed concerns with other various aspects related to the report recommendations.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 12
THAT Council suspend the rules of the Procedure By-law in order to allow an additional
round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
On October 6, 2021,during questions to staff, Council recessed at 5 pm and reconvened at
6:03 pm.
* * * * *
Paul Storer, Director,Transportation, Engineering Services, and Doug Smith, Director, Long
Range and Strategic Planning, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT Council direct staff to implement the Climate Emergency Parking Program
(CEPP), comprised of a new overnight residential parking permit with reductions
for households with low incomes, and a pollution charge added to parking
permits for more polluting vehicles 2023 and newer with exemptions for
specialized vehicles for wheelchairs, generally as outlined in the Report dated
September 15, 2021, entitled “Climate Emergency Parking Program”;
FURTHER THAT Council direct the Director of Legal Services to prepare and
bring forward for enactment amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law and
By-law Notice Enforcement By-law, generally as set out in Appendix H of the
above-noted report.
B. THAT Council direct staff to undertake public consultation as part of the City’s
existing annual budget, long term capital planning, and 2023-2026 Capital Plan
engagement processes to help inform how revenues from the Climate
Emergency Parking Program (CEPP) should be invested within the context of the
Climate Emergency Action Plan (CEAP) approved by Council (RTS No. 13199).
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council in 2022 on opportunities for
improving parking management for local streets, including full-time Residential
Permit Parking areas.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back on initial outcomes of the Climate
Emergency Parking Program (CEPP) in fall 2023 and any recommended
program adjustments.
E. THAT Council approve, in principle, the funding strategy for the Climate
Emergency Parking Program (CEPP) as follows:

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 13
a. One-time implementation cost estimated at $1.7 million to be funded from
$0.6 million approved by Council in the 2019-2022 Capital Plan
Recalibration (RTS No. 13895) for the CEAP and $1.1 million from CEPP
revenues; and
b. Ongoing annual program administration cost estimated at $1 million to be
funded from CEPP revenues;
FURTHER THAT E(a) and E(b)above be incorporated in the 2022 budget for
Council consideration in December 2021
lost
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT B be amended by adding the phrase “some form of public participatory
budgeting,” before the words “long term capital planning”;
FURTHER THAT C be amended by adding the phrase “and a process to determine
allocation of revenues including some form of public participatory budgeting” after the
words “Residential Permit Parking areas”.
LOST (Vote No. 07673)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Steward opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added to A:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back (along with C above) on how
this new city-wide overnight residential parking program considers and mitigates:
a. Commercial trade vehicles including trucks and vans that have limited EV
options;
b. Pollution surcharges that might compel permit holders to seek savings by
purchasing older model and inherently more polluting vehicles; and
c. Impacts on working, racialized, gendered and equity-seeking populations
that may be financially forced to choose more polluting vehicles or
overnight parking for employment;
FURTHER THAT the following be added to C:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to include in the report back details
regarding a city-wide model for curbside parking management of private vehicles
on public roads in residential neighbourhoods that is informed by:

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 14
a. Deeper engagement with systematically marginalized people throughout
the city, including, for example, racialized and low income people in areas
less served by local transit and services;
b. An equitable valuation and approach to private use of public road space;
c. A transparent price structure that includes a rate of change methodology;
d. A fair cost analysis of fees vs. property taxes as a means to publicly
finance city infrastructure and programmes;
e. Income and street parking distribution throughout the city; and
f. Poverty reduction analysis that considers expenses not just income.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the amendment to C be amended by adding the following as subsection (g):
g. Ways to make public transit more efficient, more accessible, and more
affordable.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07674)
(Councillors De Genova and Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Dominato abstained from the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
LOST (Vote No.07675) with Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung,
and Mayor Stewart opposed. The amended amendment having lost, motion was put and LOST
(Vote No. 07676) with Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and
Mayor Stewart opposed.
6. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Councillor Carr be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on December 9, 2021, from 6 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings on October 14, 2021, from 6 pm to 10 pm;
AND FURTHER THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on October 5, 2021, from 4 pm to 5 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 15
7. Making SAFER More Helpful for Low Income Seniors
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. BC has the highest rate of poverty among seniors across Canada. Between 2000
and 2015, the number of seniors living below the poverty line in the province
doubled, to 70,990;1
2. The Shelter Aid for Elderly Renters (SAFER) program, managed by BC Housing,
provides a subsidy to seniors to “make rents affordable for BC seniors with low to
moderate incomes.” Seniors aged 60 and up who pay more than 30% of their
before tax monthly household income towards rent and do not earn more than
the maximum monthly income are eligible for the benefit. The SAFER program
provided rental assistance to 25,000 seniors in 2019-2020;2
3. 94% of SAFER recipients are single and have an average annual income of less
than $20,000.3
4. The average subsidy received by SAFER applicants decreased by 4% from
2019-2020, to $207;3
5. The maximum benefit a senior can be eligible for is determined by region and by
the cost of an applicant’s rent (not including the costs of tenant’s insurance,
utilities, or other associated fees). The “rent ceilings” are said to reflect the
different costs for rent in different areas of BC. The maximum rent ceiling for the
Vancouver region is $803 for seniors living alone and $866 for couples;4
6. Rent ceilings have not kept pace with rising rents. They were last raised in 2018.
From 2018-2020, the average rent for a 1-bedroom apartment in Vancouver
increased by 7.4%;4
7. Residents of non-profit housing co-operatives are not eligible for SAFER. Many
co-ops report that they have exhausted the subsidy funds provided by the
Federal Government for those who pay more than 30% of their before tax
monthly household income. Low-income seniors, unable to pay “low-end of
market” rents are essentially rendered ineligible for this type of housing;4
8. In the 2020 Rental Market Survey, CMHC found that the average rent for a
1-bedroom apartment in Vancouver was $1,515. Average rent for studio
apartments in 2020 was $1309.5 CMHC has also reported that rents increase an
average of 20% on tenant turnover so units for rent are about 20% more than
units that are rented. A senior looking for a new place would face this kind of
increase;
9. The maximum amount a single senior can earn to be eligible for the benefit is
$2,550 in before-tax monthly income in Vancouver. Maximum for couples is
$2,7504; A SAFER recipient earning the maximum monthly income and receiving

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 16
the maximum benefit (for a total of $3353 before tax), and paying the average
rent for a 1-bedroom in Vancouver, would still be paying over 45% of their
income in rent;
10. A household is considered to be in core housing need when housing is not:
adequate (does not need major repairs), suitable (has enough bedrooms for the
household), or affordable (costs less than 30% of before-tax income). Data from
the 2016 census shows that Metro Vancouver has the second-highest rate of
seniors living in core housing need, or below-standard housing, of metropolitan
areas across Canada: 19.7%. Affordability is the number one issue for these
households;6
11. Seniors who are women and living alone are particularly vulnerable to housing
insecurity;6
12. Subsidized housing for seniors is not being constructed fast enough to meet
demand, and many seniors must rely on the private rental market. In 2019-2020,
there was an 11% increase in the number of applicants to BC Housing for a
subsidized place to live. The median wait time for these applicants as of March
2020 was 1.7 years, an increase of 13% over the March 2019;7
13. The 2020 Homeless Count found that seniors (aged 55+) are the fastest growing
demographic of homeless people, and make up one quarter of all homeless
people in Metro Vancouver;8
14. For those seniors spending 50-99% of their incomes on rent in 2016, “The risk of
homelessness exists for over 15,000 households ... This number has increased
by 49% over ten years, from 10,385 senior households in 2006; and
15. The City of Vancouver’s Seniors Advisory Committee voted to ask Council to
pass this resolution.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council requests the Mayor to
call on the provincial government to revise the SAFER program so that the maximum
rent ceiling for SAFER are raised to the CMHC average rents for Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT Vancouver City Council requests the Mayor to call on the provincial
government to amend the SAFER program so seniors who are members of housing
co-ops and paying low end of market rent, and who are not receiving other subsidies are
eligible to apply.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07677)
1https://www.sparc.bc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/BC-Seniors-Poverty-Report-Card.pdf
https://www.bchousing.org/housing-assistance/rental-assistance/SAFER
2https://vancouversun.com/health/seniors/its-heart-breaking-more-and-more-b-c-seniors-asking-for-help-
with-depression-homelessness
3https://www.bchousing.org/publications/Shelter-Aid-For-Elderly-Renters-Brochure.pdf
4https://www03.cmhc-schl.gc.ca/hmip-pimh/#Profile/59/2/British%20Columbia
5https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/seniors/forum/report-seniors-
housing-needs.html (Table 3a/4)

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 17
6https://www.seniorsadvocatebc.ca/app/uploads/sites/4/2020/12/MonitoringReport2020.pdf (p.ii)
7https://vancouversun.com/news/homeless-count-numbers-collected-pre-isolation-dont-paint-the-real-
picture
8http://www.metrovancouver.org/services/regional-
planning/PlanningPublications/MV_Housing_Data_Book.pdf
8. Regarding the Future of False Creek South
On October 6, 2021, after Councillor Hardwick introduced the above-noted motion, Councillor
Carr rose on a point of order under section 8.7(f) of the Procedure By-law noting the motion is
frivolous as the staff report regarding the Future of False Creek will be considered at the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on October 21, 2021, and thus
the motion should be ruled out of order. After a brief recess, the Mayor ruled the motion out of
order as based on section 8.7(d) and (f) of the Procedure By-law, noting the motion conflicts
with previous resolutions passed by Council.
* * * * *
Following the Mayor’s ruling, Councillor Hardwick challenged the ruling of the Chair.
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Chair’s ruling of Councillor Hardwick’s motion as out of order be challenged.
LOST (Vote No. 07678)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
* * * * *
Following the vote on the Challenge of the Chair, the motion was noted out of order and not put.
9. Saving Lives with the Community Led Compassion Club Model for Safer Tested
Drugs
On October 6 and 7, 2021, Council heard from 26 speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
On October 6, 2021, during hearing of speakers, Council recess at 9:55 pm and reconvened on
October 7, 2021, at 3:15 pm to continue with hearing from speakers.
* * * * *
On October 7, 2021, in absence of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor, the first order of business was
to select a Chair for the meeting. The Deputy City Clerk called for nominations for the position of
Chair, and Councillor Carr was elected by acclamation.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 18
At this point in the proceedings, Councillor Carr assumed the Chair.
* * * * *
On October 7, 2021, due to audio issues, Council recessed at 4:25 pm and reconvened at
6:10 pm with Deputy Mayor Kirby-Yung as Chair.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. The Drug Users Liberation Front (DULF) and Vancouver Area Network of Drug
Users (VANDU) have applied to the federal government for an exemption under
s. 56(1) of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (CDSA) to allow them to
operate a Safe Supply Fulfillment Centre and Cocaine, Heroin and
Methamphetamine (CHM) Compassion Clubs in Vancouver (see attachment as
part of the motion posted online);
2. Vancouver Coastal Health supports this application, has an established working
relationship with DULF, and has agreed to work with DULF and VANDU to
implement this model should the exemption be approved;
3. Almost 6 precious humans in BC die every day from toxic drugs, more than die
from COVID;
4. Current methods of providing safer prescription drugs do not work for the vast
majority of drug users;
5. As former federal Health Minister Hadju said in her letter to Provincial and
Territorial Ministers of Health on August 24, 2020, “the overdose crisis is one of
the most significant public health crises in recent Canadian history [...] we need
immediate action from all levels of government and health care practitioners to
prevent further deaths from the contaminated illegal drug supply …”;
6. A large and growing body of evidence has shown unequivocally that drug user-
led programs are more appealing to those experiencing the greatest risk of drug-
related harm, and such initiatives are uniquely effective in extending the reach
and effectiveness of conventional public health interventions
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1307726/;
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1093%2Fjurban%2Fjtg052;
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3815969/;
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/02791072.1992.10471617);
7. The preferable method to obtain substances for compassion clubs is to purchase
pharmaceutical-grade cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine from a properly
licensed and regulated producer. This method is not possible under the current
regulatory framework, however. In the absence of permissions to obtain
substances in this manner, a DULF fulfillment centre would search for and obtain
substances in the illicit market through the darknet markets from vendors in

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 19
Canada. Purchasing online has the benefit of reducing interactions and potential
violence from buying in-person, and due to the nature of these darknet markets,
vendors would remain anonymous;
8. The DULF Fulfillment Centre model takes existing illicit drugs, tests them, labels
them, and reintroduces them into the market without profiting on their
reintroduction;
9. Once DULF receives the substances, the organization would immediately put the
substances into a secure safe onsite and log the supply in an inventory record.
This record would be subjected to a daily count to ensure there is no theft, loss or
diversion. Further, records would also be kept on any dispensation including to
compassion clubs or to club members;
10. Before labeling and packing the substances, DULF would implement a quality
control process utilizing Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) drug
checking services and fentanyl and benzodiazepine immunoassay test strips. By
testing the substances at a point higher up the chain of distribution, this model
exponentially increases the effect of drug checking as a harm reduction service;
11. In order for a drug user group to become a distributing compassion club through
DULF they must comply with minimum safety and screening standards. These
standards are: keeping an active membership list; ensuring secured and double-
locked storage for all substances; keeping records for amounts of substances
distributed and to which members; maintaining financial records and having
accountability processes;
12. Membership screening is to be conducted by a current member of the DULF
Compassion Club and a staff member or volunteer. The primary purpose of the
screening is to determine if an individual meets the minimum requirements for
membership, which are that the person is over eighteen (18) and is currently
using illicit drugs. In full operation, the screening process will also be used to
determine other needs that are not being met by club membership, such as
assistance to navigate social support systems or accessing recovery/detox
services;
13. Funds would be acquired from donations and/ membership fees;
14. DULF would work with local researchers on a rigorous evaluation of the program;
and
15. This model could also reduce the impact of violence of the local street drug
market, the cost of health care for people who take toxic drugs, and the costs of
police.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council endorse the application
of the Drug Users Liberation Front (DULF) and the Vancouver Area Network of Drug
Users (VANDU) for a federal section 56 exemption for a compassion club model to
supply safer drugs to people who use drugs, and who are over 18 years old;

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 20
FURTHER THAT Council ask the Mayor to write to the federal government endorsing
the DULF/VANDU application.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT motion be amended by adding the phrase, “with the stipulation that they receive
their supply from a legal regulated source that does not benefit organized crime”, after
the words, “over 18 years old”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07679)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED BY Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added as an additional clause:
AND FURTHER THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to report back as
quickly as possible with a strategy on creating multiple routes to safe supply,
including appealing to the provincial government to amend the Pharmacy
Operations and Drug Scheduling Act and the Health Professions Act and other
legislation as necessary, and ways that the City can provide concrete action
through tools available in the Vancouver Charter.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the amendment be amended by adding the phrase, “work with the Vancouver
Police Department and Vancouver Coastal Health and”, before the words, “report back
as quickly as possible”;
FURTHER THAT the following phrase, “while upholding the Four Pillars Drug Strategy.”
be added after the words, “available in the Vancouver Charter”.
LOST (Vote No. 07680)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, and Wiebe opposed)
The amendment to the amendment having lost, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 07681) with Councillor De Genova opposed and Councillor Hardwick
abstaining from the vote.
Prior to the vote, Council agreed to separate the components of the motion as amended with
the first paragraph being put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07682) with Councillor
Hardwick absent for the vote; the second paragraph being put and CARRIED (Vote No. 07683)
with Councillor De Genova opposed and Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote; and, the final
paragraph being put and CARRIED (Vote No. 07684) with Councillor De Genova opposed and
Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 21
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the WHEREAS Clause 7 be removed.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.7685)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. The Drug Users Liberation Front (DULF) and Vancouver Area Network of Drug
Users (VANDU) have applied to the federal government for an exemption under
s. 56(1) of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (CDSA) to allow them to
operate a Safe Supply Fulfillment Centre and Cocaine, Heroin and
Methamphetamine (CHM) Compassion Clubs in Vancouver (see attachment as
part of the motion posted online);
2. Vancouver Coastal Health supports this application, has an established working
relationship with DULF, and has agreed to work with DULF and VANDU to
implement this model should the exemption be approved;
3. Almost 6 precious humans in BC die every day from toxic drugs, more than die
from COVID;
4. Current methods of providing safer prescription drugs do not work for the vast
majority of drug users;
5. As former federal Health Minister Hadju said in her letter to Provincial and
Territorial Ministers of Health on August 24, 2020, “the overdose crisis is one of
the most significant public health crises in recent Canadian history [...] we need
immediate action from all levels of government and health care practitioners to
prevent further deaths from the contaminated illegal drug supply …”;
6. A large and growing body of evidence has shown unequivocally that drug user-
led programs are more appealing to those experiencing the greatest risk of drug-
related harm, and such initiatives are uniquely effective in extending the reach
and effectiveness of conventional public health interventions
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1307726/;
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1093%2Fjurban%2Fjtg052;
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3815969/;
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/02791072.1992.10471617);
7. The DULF Fulfillment Centre model takes existing illicit drugs, tests them, labels
them, and reintroduces them into the market without profiting on their
reintroduction;
8. Once DULF receives the substances, the organization would immediately put the
substances into a secure safe onsite and log the supply in an inventory record.
This record would be subjected to a daily count to ensure there is no theft, loss or

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 22
diversion. Further, records would also be kept on any dispensation including to
compassion clubs or to club members;
9. Before labeling and packing the substances, DULF would implement a quality
control process utilizing Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) drug
checking services and fentanyl and benzodiazepine immunoassay test strips. By
testing the substances at a point higher up the chain of distribution, this model
exponentially increases the effect of drug checking as a harm reduction service;
10. In order for a drug user group to become a distributing compassion club through
DULF they must comply with minimum safety and screening standards. These
standards are: keeping an active membership list; ensuring secured and double-
locked storage for all substances; keeping records for amounts of substances
distributed and to which members; maintaining financial records and having
accountability processes;
11. Membership screening is to be conducted by a current member of the DULF
Compassion Club and a staff member or volunteer. The primary purpose of the
screening is to determine if an individual meets the minimum requirements for
membership, which are that the person is over eighteen (18) and is currently
using illicit drugs. In full operation, the screening process will also be used to
determine other needs that are not being met by club membership, such as
assistance to navigate social support systems or accessing recovery/detox
services;
12. Funds would be acquired from donations and/ membership fees;
13. DULF would work with local researchers on a rigorous evaluation of the program;
and
14. This model could also reduce the impact of violence of the local street drug
market, the cost of health care for people who take toxic drugs, and the costs of
police.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council endorse the application
of the Drug Users Liberation Front (DULF) and the Vancouver Area Network of Drug
Users (VANDU) for a federal section 56 exemption for a compassion club model to
supply safer drugs to people who use drugs, and who are over 18 years old with the
stipulation that they receive their supply from a legal regulated source that does not
benefit organized crime;
FURTHER THAT Council ask the Mayor to write to the federal government endorsing
the DULF/VANDU application;
AND FURTHER THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to report back as quickly as
possible with a strategy on creating multiple routes to safe supply, including appealing to
the provincial government to amend the Pharmacy Operations and Drug Scheduling Act
and the Health Professions Act and other legislation as necessary, and ways that the
City can provide concrete action through tools available in the Vancouver Charter.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 23
10. Supporting Additional Transportation Options to Reduce Reliance on Vehicle
Ownership
After Councillor Dominato introduced the motion, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council suspend the rules of the Procedure By-law in order to allow Councillor
Dominato to postpone the motion to the first Council meeting in 2022.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
POSTPOSTMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the motion entitled “Supporting Additional Transportation Options to Reduce
Reliance on Vehicle Ownership” be postponed to the Council meeting on
January 25, 2021, in order for the Development, Buildings, and Licensing (DBL)
Department to take part in this work due to the memorandum to not task additional work
to DBL until 2022.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
11. Public Safety: Evaluating and Addressing Any Impacts of City of Vancouver
Actions on Neighbourhood Safety
On October 7, 2021, Council heard from seven speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS:
1. Vancouver City Council advocated for the province to provide housing and wrap-
around supports for people in encampments in Oppenheimer (May 2020) and
(April 2021). The encampment ended after the Province responded by securing
686 housing units and community centre spaces. Over 180 people moved out of
Strathcona Park into housing units described as temporary transitional housing;1
2. On September 11, 2020, Mayor Stewart called a Special Council meeting where
he brought a motion asking Council to endorse work on three housing options for
unsheltered residents in Vancouver.2 In October 2020, Council voted to allocate
$30 million of city funding to this plan;
3. The City of Vancouver does not require commitments from senior levels of
government to fund adequate supports to meet the complex care needs of
residents in transitional or supportive housing;

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 24
4. Adequate support for complex care models often reaches beyond a housing unit
in a building with a front desk clerk. Non-profit operators cannot provide further
support for mental health, addictions, or trauma without funding;
5. Evidence-based research and success rates reinforce the importance of robust
supports and care models, such as the Red Fish Healing Centre, opening in
Coquitlam on Riverview Lands in October 2021. Operated by BC Mental Health
& Substance Use Services, this 105-bed facility will treat people from across the
province with concurrent diagnoses and complex substance use and mental
health issues. The only centre of its kind in North America, six domains of
wellness complete this model of care, including ‘meaningful life’;3
6. Vancouver Police continue to warn the public about dramatic increases in violent
crime compared to reports filed pre-pandemic; examples reported include:
• Sexual assaults by strangers (129% increase comparing July 2021 and
2019);4
• Commercial break-ins, property damage and theft. Violent shoplifting (260%
increase from 2019 to 2020);5
• Drastic rise in hate crimes (116% increase, with anti-Asian hate crimes rising
878% from 2019 to 2020, when compared with data from 2019);
7. The media has reported concerns of Vancouver residents for their safety after
violent crimes in their neighbourhoods. Examples of incidents causing fear
include assaults on young children, home invasions, stabbings and the recent
violent sexual assault that left a senior with life-threatening injuries;
8. Several media outlets have reported expensive and repeat damage to storefronts
of small businesses, especially in Downtown and the West End. Hit with these
costs on top of losses from COVID-19, many small businesses find it difficult to
continue operating; and
9. Residents living in strata condos and rental buildings are frustrated as property
damage continues daily, resulting in increased strata fees and costs associated
with their housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to host and facilitate a roundtable, inviting Business
Improvement Associations (BIAs) to each select a few members to share
concerns or perspectives on increased property crime, theft and violent
shoplifting;
FURTHER THAT representatives from the Vancouver Police Department,
Vancouver Coastal Health and BC Housing, also be invited to this roundtable;

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 25
AND FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council with a summary and any
recommendations before the end of Q4 2021.
B. THAT Council direct staff to request on behalf of Council to the Vancouver Police
Department, responsible for the Community Policing Centres Budget, to consider
and report back with options for resident participation in safety measures and
programs, especially in neighbourhoods experiencing high levels of violent crime;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to request on behalf of Council that the
Vancouver Police Department share monthly updates to Council members on
serious crime and violent crime in Vancouver.
C. THAT Council direct staff to approach staff in the appropriate ministries, including
the Ministry for Mental Health and Addictions, the Ministry for Social
Development and Poverty Reduction and BC Housing, and request funding for
centres such as Redfish Healing Centre be considered for transitional and
supportive housing in the City of Vancouver.
1 More than 180 move out of Strathcona Park encampment ahead of Friday deadline: Park Board. April
2021. Global News BC: https://globalnews.ca/news/7823881/strathcona-park-encampment-
deadline/#:~:text=The%20Vancouver%20Park%20Board%20says%20more%20than%20180,the%20Eas
t%20Vancouver%20park%20by%2010%20a.m.%20Friday.
2 Council Member’s Motion: Emergency COVID-19 Relief for Unsheltered Vancouver Residents.
September 2020. https://council.vancouver.ca/20200911/documents/spec1.pdf
3 Red Fish Healing Centre for Mental Health and Addition. BC Mental Health and Substance Use
Services. http://www.bcmhsus.ca/our-services/provincial-integrated-mental-health-addiction-
programs/red-fish-healing-centre
4 VPD warns sex assaults on the rise throughout the city. (2021 August) Vancouver Police Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2021/08/11/vpd-warns-sex-assaults-on-the-rise-throughout-the-city/
5 VPD responds to rising crime in downtown core. (2021 September) Vancouver Police Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2021/09/16/vpd-responds-to-rising-crime-in-downtown-core/
amended
AMENDEMENT MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT A be amended as follows:
• the words, “community stakeholders, industry associations, and”, be added
before the words“Business Improvement Associations (BIAs)”;
• the phrase, “Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor General, and Housing,
Ministry for Mental Health and Addictions, the Ministry for Social
Development and Poverty Reduction,” be added before the words
“Vancouver Police Department”.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 26
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.07686)
(Councillor Swanson abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
AMENDEMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as D:
THAT Council invite the BIAs and the Vancouver Police Department to co-sign a
letter from the mayor strongly urging the federal and provincial government to
provide dignified housing and operating expenses for all homeless people in
Vancouver, starting with the approximately 700 who have no access even to
shelters.
amended
AMENDEMENT to the AMENDEMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT D be amended as follows:
• add the words, “on behalf of Council”, after the words, “letter from the Mayor”;
• add the phrase, “with access to supportive services including mental health
supports as well as addictions management and treatment services,” after the
words, “dignified housing”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote no. 07687)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07688) with Councillor Boyle absent for the vote.
Prior to the vote, Council agreed to separate the components of the motion as amended
with A, B, C, being put and CARRIED (Vote No. 07689) with Councillor Swanson opposed and
Councillor Boyle absent for the vote; and, D being put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote
No. 07690) with Councilor Boyle absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS:
1. Vancouver City Council advocated for the province to provide housing and wrap-
around supports for people in encampments in Oppenheimer (May 2020) and
(April 2021). The encampment ended after the Province responded by securing
686 housing units and community centre spaces. Over 180 people moved out of
Strathcona Park into housing units described as temporary transitional housing;1
2. On September 11, 2020, Mayor Stewart called a Special Council meeting where
he brought a motion asking Council to endorse work on three housing options for

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 27
unsheltered residents in Vancouver.2 In October 2020, Council voted to allocate
$30 million of city funding to this plan;
3. The City of Vancouver does not require commitments from senior levels of
government to fund adequate supports to meet the complex care needs of
residents in transitional or supportive housing;
4. Adequate support for complex care models often reaches beyond a housing unit
in a building with a front desk clerk. Non-profit operators cannot provide further
support for mental health, addictions, or trauma without funding;
5. Evidence-based research and success rates reinforce the importance of robust
supports and care models, such as the Red Fish Healing Centre, opening in
Coquitlam on Riverview Lands in October 2021. Operated by BC Mental Health
& Substance Use Services, this 105-bed facility will treat people from across the
province with concurrent diagnoses and complex substance use and mental
health issues. The only centre of its kind in North America, six domains of
wellness complete this model of care, including ‘meaningful life’;3
6. Vancouver Police continue to warn the public about dramatic increases in violent
crime compared to reports filed pre-pandemic; examples reported include:
• Sexual assaults by strangers (129% increase comparing July 2021 and
2019);4
• Commercial break-ins, property damage and theft. Violent shoplifting (260%
increase from 2019 to 2020);5
• Drastic rise in hate crimes (116% increase, with anti-Asian hate crimes rising
878% from 2019 to 2020, when compared with data from 2019);
7. The media has reported concerns of Vancouver residents for their safety after
violent crimes in their neighbourhoods. Examples of incidents causing fear
include assaults on young children, home invasions, stabbings and the recent
violent sexual assault that left a senior with life-threatening injuries;
8. Several media outlets have reported expensive and repeat damage to storefronts
of small businesses, especially in Downtown and the West End. Hit with these
costs on top of losses from COVID-19, many small businesses find it difficult to
continue operating; and
9. Residents living in strata condos and rental buildings are frustrated as property
damage continues daily, resulting in increased strata fees and costs associated
with their housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to host and facilitate a roundtable, inviting community
stakeholders, industry associations, and Business Improvement Associations

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 28
(BIAs) to each select a few members to share concerns or perspectives on
increased property crime, theft and violent shoplifting;
FURTHER THAT representatives from the Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor
General, and Housing, Ministry for Mental Health and Addictions, the Ministry for
Social Development and Poverty Reduction, Vancouver Police Department,
Vancouver Coastal Health and BC Housing, also be invited to this roundtable;
AND FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council with a summary and any
recommendations before the end of Q4 2021.
B. THAT Council direct staff to request on behalf of Council to the Vancouver Police
Department (VPD), responsible for the Community Policing Centres Budget, to
consider and report back with options for resident participation in safety
measures and programs, especially in neighbourhoods experiencing high levels
of violent crime;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to request on behalf of Council that the
Vancouver Police Department share monthly updates to Council members on
serious crime and violent crime in Vancouver.
C. THAT Council direct staff to approach staff in the appropriate ministries, including
the Ministry for Mental Health and Addictions, the Ministry for Social
Development and Poverty Reduction and BC Housing, and request funding for
centres such as Redfish Healing Centre be considered for transitional and
supportive housing in the City of Vancouver.
D. THAT Council invite the BIAs and the Vancouver Police Department to co-sign a
letter from the Mayor on behalf of Council strongly urging the federal and
provincial governments to provide dignified housing with access to supportive
services including mental health supports as well as addictions management and
treatment services, and operating expenses for all homeless people in
Vancouver, starting with the approximately 700 who have no access even to
shelters.
1 More than 180 move out of Strathcona Park encampment ahead of Friday deadline: Park Board. April
2021. Global News BC: https://globalnews.ca/news/7823881/strathcona-park-encampment-
deadline/#:~:text=The%20Vancouver%20Park%20Board%20says%20more%20than%20180,the%20Eas
t%20Vancouver%20park%20by%2010%20a.m.%20Friday.
2 Council Member’s Motion: Emergency COVID-19 Relief for Unsheltered Vancouver Residents.
September 2020. https://council.vancouver.ca/20200911/documents/spec1.pdf
3 Red Fish Healing Centre for Mental Health and Addition. BC Mental Health and Substance Use
Services. http://www.bcmhsus.ca/our-services/provincial-integrated-mental-health-addiction-
programs/red-fish-healing-centre
4 VPD warns sex assaults on the rise throughout the city. (2021 August) Vancouver Police Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2021/08/11/vpd-warns-sex-assaults-on-the-rise-throughout-the-city/

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, October 5, 6, and 7, 2021 29
5 VPD responds to rising crime in downtown core. (2021 September) Vancouver Police Department
https://vpd.ca/news/2021/09/16/vpd-responds-to-rising-crime-in-downtown-core/
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote)
On October 7, 2021, the Special Council adjourned at 8:59 pm.
* * * * *