REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
SEPTEMBER 22, 2021
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, September 22, 2021, at 9:34 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
This Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Order of the
Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency
Program Act, updated Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Councillor Adriane Carr, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence - Civic Business
from 2:30 pm to 4 pm)
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Melissa De Genova* (Leave of Absence – Personal
Reasons from 10 am to noon)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Vice-Chair
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Wiebe* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council adopt Items 3 and 4, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillors De Genova and Wiebe absent for the vote)
1(a). Making Patios a Part of Every Summer in Vancouver
September 8, 2021
Margaret Wittgens, Deputy General Manager, Strategy and Integrated Planning, Engineering
Services, introduced the item, and Scott Edwards, Manager, Street Use Management,
Engineering Services, provided a presentation, and along with staff from Engineering Services,
responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, an amendment to the Street Vending By-law
to include a definition of curbside patio and other related amendments as
generally set out in Appendix B of the Report dated September 8, 2021, entitled
“Making Patios a Part of Every Summer in Vancouver”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment such
by-law amendments as are necessary to implement the above.
B. THAT Council direct staff to undertake a review of the patio program (annual and
summer), including design guidelines and a fee review, and report back following
a review of the summer permit season.
C. THAT Council support in principle an incremental patio program budget of
$682,000 for additional operating costs associated with the summer patio
program to be funded from patio fees and brought forward for consideration in
the 2022 budget process.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT B be amended by inserting the following as an additional clause:
FURTHER THAT in line with Council priorities around accessibility, equity, and
fairness; that Council direct staff to report back with strengthened policy
guidelines to balance demands on public space and to ensure and enforce

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 3
accessibility, including but not limited to considerations from the public/civic
agency groups identified as part of the 2022 engagement workplan.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07640)
(Councillors De Genova and Wiebe absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07641) with Councillors De Genova and Wiebe absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, an amendment to the Street Vending By-law
to include a definition of curbside patio and other related amendments as
generally set out in Appendix B of the Report dated September 8, 2021, entitled
“Making Patios a Part of Every Summer in Vancouver”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment such
by-law amendments as are necessary to implement the above.
B. THAT Council direct staff to undertake a review of the patio program (annual and
summer), including design guidelines and a fee review, and report back following
a review of the summer permit season;
FURTHER THAT in line with Council priorities around accessibility, equity, and
fairness; that Council direct staff to report back with strengthened policy
guidelines to balance demands on public space and to ensure and enforce
accessibility, including but not limited to considerations from the public/civic
agency groups identified as part of the 2022 engagement workplan.
C. THAT Council support in principle an incremental patio program budget of
$682,000 for additional operating costs associated with the summer patio
program to be funded from patio fees and brought forward for consideration in
the 2022 budget process.
1(b). Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Allow Patios for Liquor
Manufacturers
August 19, 2021
Staff from Engineering Services responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law generally in
accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report dated August 19, 2021, entitled
“Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Allow Patios for Liquor
Manufacturers”, as follows:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 4
i. Amend the M-1, M-2, IC-1, IC-2, IC-3, I-1, I-1A, I-1B, I-1C, I-2, I-3, I-4, and FC-2
district schedules, to allow patios for liquor manufacturers; and
ii. Update Section 10.29A to permit temporary patios until March 31, 2022;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07642)
(Councillors De Genova and Wiebe absent for the vote)
2. Regal Hotel – Injunction and Notice on Title
July 6, 2021
Saul Schwebs, Acting Chief Building Official, introduced the item, and along with Grant Murray,
Assistant Director, Administration, Legal Department, responded to questions.
Evan Cooke, Eyford Partners LLP, spoke on behalf of the owners of the Regal Hotel, and
responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to commence a legal
action or proceeding in relation to the property located at 1046 Granville Street
(Lot G Block 83 District Lot 541 New Westminster District Plan BCP41644, PID:
027-976-661) and to seek injunctive relief in that action or proceeding in order to
bring this property into compliance with City By-laws.
B. THAT the City Clerk be directed to file a Notice in the Land Title Office pursuant
to section 336D of the Vancouver Charter, in relation to the property at 1046
Granville Street (Lot G Block 83 District Lot 541 New Westminster District Plan
BCP41644, PID: 027-976-661); indicating that Council has adopted a resolution
relating to the property because there are Building By-law violations that the City
Building Inspector considers to amount to an unsafe condition, and that further
information respecting this resolution may be inspected at the offices of the City
Clerk.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07643)
(Councillors De Genova and Wiebe absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 5
3. Downtown Eastside Special Enterprise Program – Allocation of Grant Funding to
Implementers
August 12, 2021
A. THAT Council allocates $350,000 in Special Enterprise Pilot Program grants,
from the remaining funds approved in January 2021 (RTS No. 14172), and
distribute the funds as follows:
i. Business Supports: $150,000 for the Vancouver Chinatown Foundation
(VCF) to provide capacity building to heritage and community-serving
businesses, non-profits and social enterprises in accordance with the
criteria set out in Appendices A and B of the Report dated
August 12, 2021, entitled “Downtown Eastside Special Enterprise
Program – Allocation of Grant Funding to Implementers”; and
ii. Affordable Spaces: $200,000 for the Community Impact Real Estate
Society (CIRES) to assist the three non-profit and social enterprise
tenants, as set out in Appendix B of the above noted report, to gain
access to affordable spaces.
B. THAT, pursuant to Section 206 (1) (j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization receiving funds as a result of A above of the Report dated
August 12, 2021, entitled “Downtown Eastside Special Enterprise Program –
Allocation of Grant Funding to Implementers”, to be contributing to the welfare of
Vancouver.
C. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design, and Sustainability (GM
of PDS) (or their designate) be authorized to negotiate and execute agreements
to disburse the grants described in the Report dated August 12, 2021, entitled
“Downtown Eastside Special Enterprise Program – Allocation of Grant Funding to
Implementers”, on the terms and conditions generally set out in the same report
and on such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the GM of PDS and
the Director of Legal Services.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by the approval of A and B
above unless and until the applicable grant agreement or letter of agreement is
approved by the City in accordance with C above and executed and delivered by
both the grant recipient and GM of PDS (or their designate).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 07649)
4. First United Church and Lookout Powell Street Getaway Grant Funding
Recommendation
August 20, 2021
A. THAT Council approve a grant of $200,000 to the charitable institution, First
United Church Community Ministry Society (“First United”), under section
206(1)(a) of the Vancouver Charter, to be spent on renovations to support the

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 6
creation of a temporary shelter at 467 Alexander Street while their current
location at 320 East Hastings Street is being redeveloped; with the source of
funding to be the 2021 City operating budget subject to:
i. BC Housing providing the remaining funding to complete the estimated
$1.3 million renovations;
ii. all required development and building permits for 467 Alexander Street
having been issued by the City; and
iii. First United executing and delivering to the City of Vancouver a grant
agreement on terms satisfactory to the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services (“ACCS”).
B. THAT Council approve a grant of $200,000 to the charitable institution, Lookout
Housing and Heath Society (“Lookout”), under section 206(1)(a) of the
Vancouver Charter, to be spent on renovations to support the creation of a swing
space for the Powell Street Getaway at 450 East Hastings Street while their
current location at 528 Powell Street is being redeveloped; with the source of
funding to be the 2021 City operating budget, subject to:
i. all required development and building permits for the renovation work at
450 East Hastings Street having been issued by the City; and
ii. Lookout Housing and Health Society executing and delivering to the City
of Vancouver a grant agreement on terms satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services.
C. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate and execute grant agreements to disperse the grants
described in A and B above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such
other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts,
Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal Services.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A and B above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 07650)
5. Acting on the Climate Emergency by Opposing the Tilbury LNG Phase Two
Expansion Project (Member’s Motion B.3)
At the Council meeting on September 21, 2021, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on September 22, 2021, in order
to hear from speakers, followed by debate and decision.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 7
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 11:57 am and reconvened at 1:04 pm.
* * * * *
Council heard from seven speakers in support and four speakers in opposition to the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The deadly impacts of climate change are already affecting Vancouverites
through extreme weather events, including heat waves and air quality advisories
due to wildfire smoke;
2. These and other impacts of climate change disproportionately affect vulnerable
and marginalized people in ways counter to the City of Vancouver’s equity goals;
3. Vancouver’s Climate Emergency Action Plan commits the city to reducing carbon
pollution 50% by 2030. Metro Vancouver’s Clean Air Plan proposes to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions in the region by 45% below 2010 levels;
4. The Tilbury LNG proposal in Delta and associated upstream fracking operations
would create 1.98 to 2.67 MT of carbon pollution per year, similar in scale to the
entire City of Vancouver’s 2.5 MT annual emissions. If approved, this single
facility will counteract all the work Vancouver is doing to address the climate
emergency;
5. FortisBC recently submitted a Detailed Project Description to the BC
Environmental Assessment Office and the Impact Assessment Agency, which will
now decide whether to request amendments to the Detailed Project Description
or make the decision to proceed to an environmental assessment, exempt the
project from an environmental assessment or terminate the project. If the project
proceeds, there would be at least three opportunities for public comment and the
process would not finish until late 2021 at the earliest;
6. Thirteen Indigenous Nations are participating in the environmental review
process and have shared concerns about Tilbury LNG’s impacts on their rights
and cumulative effects of development on their territories. These include the
Chawathil, Cheam, Cowichan, Halalt, Stz’uminus, Lyackson, Katzie, Kwantlen,
Musqueam, Tsawwasen, Tsleil-Waututh, Ts'uubaa-asatx Nations and the S’ólh
Téméxw Stewardship Alliance;
7. Richmond City Council and Port Moody City Council both voted to oppose Tilbury
LNG in 2020. Delta has provided some comments about fire safety and
continues to engage with the review but has not yet taken a position on the
proposal. Hundreds of residents in the area have also expressed concerns to

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 8
various levels of government;
8. Tilbury LNG does not align with regional air quality objectives and may release
contaminates like sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon dioxide, particulate
matter and hydrocarbons into Metro Vancouver’s air shed. It also poses safety
risks from the transport and storage of a volatile material within a densely
populated area;
9. FortisBC has applied to the BC Utilities Commission with the intention of
recovering the costs of the Tilbury LNG expansion by raising prices for its gas
customers. If successful, ratepayers would be responsible for an estimated $778
million in higher utility bills;
10. The International Energy Agency says no new fossil fuel projects should be
approved if the world is to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 and therefore
maintain a safe climate; and
11. In October 2020, Vancouver unanimously endorsed the Fossil Fuel Non-
Proliferation Treaty, which calls for an end to all new exploration and production
of coal, oil and gas.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council declare its opposition to the Tilbury Phase Two
LNG Expansion Project.
B. THAT Council direct the Mayor to write a letter to the BC Environmental
Assessment Office communicating this opposition;
FURTHER THAT this letter be shared with other local governments in Metro
Vancouver.
C. THAT Council direct city staff to engage in the BC Environmental Assessment
process, if the project proceeds to a review. This intervention may include studies
on Tilbury LNG’s impacts to human health, marine ecosystems and the global
climate.
carried
POSTPONMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council postpone making any decision on the motion entitled “Acting on the
Climate Emergency by Opposing the Tilbury LNG”, until such a time that Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil Waututh Nations have taken a position(s) on the proposed Tilbury
LNG project and pending completion of the environmental assessment;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 9
FURTHER THAT Council direct the appropriate staff to consult with the Musqueam,
Squamish and Tsleil Waututh Nations on the matter of Tilbury LNG.
LOST (Vote No. 07644)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The postponement motion having lost, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 07645) with
Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Kirby-Yung and Hardwick opposed and Councillor Bligh and
Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee vary the order of the agenda in order to deal with Item 7 – Effective
and Equitable Staffing for Council, as the next order of business;
FURTHER THAT the Committee recess for fifteen minutes before beginning Item 7.
withdrawn
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council refer Item 6 to the next scheduled Council meeting.
LOST (Vote No. 07646)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Hardwick, Swanson, Hardwick and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
Subsequently, Councillor De Genova withdrew the motion, and the Committee unanimously
agreed.
* * * * *
6. Establishing a Friendship City Program in the City of Vancouver (Member’s Motion
B.4)
At the Council meeting on September 21, 2021, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on September 22, 2021, in order
to hear from speakers, followed by debate and decision.
Council heard from one speaker in support of the motion.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 10
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Partnering with cities located outside Canada is an effective way by which
Vancouver can build and strengthen cultural and business relationships around
the globe - especially in an increasingly divided world;
2. Vancouver has a long established “Sister City Program” and detailed and
extensive Sister City agreements with Edinburgh, Odessa, Guangzhou,
Yokohama and Los Angeles;
3. Vancouver is often approached to form official relationships with other cities but
has no formal mechanism to do so other than detailed, extensive, and sometimes
costly Sister City agreements;
4. The City of Toronto has a “Partnership City Program” similar in nature to
Vancouver’s “Sister City Program”, but also a less formal and more local
community-driven “Friendship City Program” which allows Toronto to expand its
range of city-to-city relationships without incurring significant additional
administrative costs; and
5. Toronto’s Friendship City Program applications must be co-sponsored by a
Council member as well as an interested community organization, with the
candidate city also officially signalling a willingness to participate in a Friendship
City agreement.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to create a “Friendship City Program” including the
following provisions:
1. Applications to add a new Friendship City be initiated by a “sponsoring
community organization” that is also a registered non-profit society;
2. The sponsoring community organization represents a resident community
located in Vancouver with an active relationship with the proposed
Friendship City;
3. The sponsoring community organization be responsible for all associated
Friendship City activities and costs;
4. The sponsoring community organization demonstrates support and
commitment in terms of community interest and active participation in the
program;
5. The sponsoring community organization provides an annual written report
to Council with progress and activity updates;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 11
6. Friendship City agreements expire at the end of five (5) years with an
option to renew;
7. Proposed Friendship Cities have aligned strategic values; shared
economic and cultural values with Vancouver, and have a similar size and
geography;
8. There is a limit of one Friendship City per country;
9. Every Friendship City agreement requires a separate Council motion;
10. Support provided by the City of Vancouver be limited to a letter signed by
Mayor, annual letters to confirm the agreement, and staff coordination of
annual reports to Council; and
11. Any other budgetary considerations are included in the foundational
motion to Council establishing the relationship with a new city.
B. THAT Council direct staff to include a framework for evaluating Friendship City
relationships, and a mechanism for terminating the Friendship City relationship, if
it no longer meets a standard such as community reporting, active relationship,
or shared values.
C. THAT Council direct staff to review the existing City of Vancouver Sister City
Program and provide a report back with recommendations to Council on the
program, including a review of the status of current Sister Cities, and suggestions
for updating the gendered language of the program.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07647)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
7. Effective and Equitable Staffing for Council (Member’s Motion B.5)
At the Council meeting on September 21, 2021, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on September 22, 2021, in order
to hear from speakers, followed by debate and decision.
Council heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Current City of Vancouver policies permit the Mayor's staff to attend briefings
with or in place of the Mayor. The Mayor's staff also have the privilege of
communicating with city staff on behalf of the Mayor;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 12
2. Staff contracted by Councillors who have signed a City of Vancouver Services
Agreement are not permitted to attend briefings or meetings with or on behalf of
Councillors;
3. Council supported a motion submitted by the Mayor in January 2019 titled
"Increasing Support for Councillors for Constituency Work". As a result of the
resolution, Councillors received an increase in their discretionary budget,
allocating a total of $30,000 per Councillor. Although this is significantly less than
the Mayor's discretionary budget, each Councillor can choose to spend this
budget to contract staff;
4. Legal agreements, including non-disclosure agreements, can be helpful tools to
protect information and uphold the requirements of confidentiality and the
Vancouver Charter;
5. Granting similar or equal access to the Mayor's Chiefs of Staff and staff
contracted to work for individual Councillors helps create a more equitable
workplace. Ultimately, this could help each Councillor better serve their
constituents.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to create or update City of Vancouver policies to allow
staff contracted by all Council members, who have signed a City of Vancouver
services agreement, to have the same level of access, responsibilities and
privileges as the Mayor's Chiefs of Staff including but not limited to attending
briefings, meetings with staff and access to Council members’ offices.
B. THAT staff consider and execute any addendums and amendments to current
and future City of Vancouver service contracts to ensure compliance to the
Vancouver Charter and protect the integrity of information within the Vancouver
Charter.
C. THAT to provide fair and equal opportunities for all Council members, Council
direct staff to bring any necessary decisions of Council forward, in time to
implement these changes before November 2021.
REFERENCES:
Motion - Increasing Support for Councillors for Constituency Work
January 29, 2019
https://council.vancouver.ca/20190129/documents/motionb5.pdf
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Effective and Equitable Staffing for Council”,
back to staff to report back on options to implement the direction in this motion, including

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 13
Human Resources and budget implications of staffing for Councillors, using an equity
lens.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07648)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Kirby-Yung and Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 4:21 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
SEPTEMBER 22, 2021
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday,
September 22, 2021, at 4:21 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the
recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence - Civic Business
from 2:30 pm to 4 pm)
Councillor Michael Wiebe (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, September 22, 2021
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1(a). Making Patios a Part of Every Summer in Vancouver
1(b). Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Allow Patios for Liquor Manufacturers
2. Regal Hotel – Injunction and Notice on Title
3. Downtown East Side Special Enterprise Program - Allocation of Grant Funding to
Implementers
4. First United Church and Lookout Powell Street Getaway Grant Funding
Recommendation

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 2
5. Acting on the Climate Emergency by Opposing the Tilbury LNG Phase Two Expansion
Project (Member’s Motion B.3)
6. Establishing a Friendship City Program in the City of Vancouver (Member’s
Motion B.4)
7. Effective and Equitable Staffing for Council (Member’s Motion B.5)
Items 1 to 7
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of September 22, 2021, as contained in items 1 to 7, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
Councillor De Genova advised to not have reviewed the proceedings related to by-law 1, and
would therefore not be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1, and authorize the Mayor and
City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to Amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 Regarding Building
Permits (By-law No. 13123)
(Councillor De Genova and Wiebe ineligible to vote)
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Hardwick be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on September 23, 2021, from 6 pm to 7 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 22, 2021 3
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 4:26 pm.
* * * * *