REPORT TO COUNCIL
AUDITOR GENERAL COMMITTEE
SEPTEMBER 17, 2021
A meeting of the Auditor General Committee was held on Friday, September 17, 2021, at
1:02 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law and Vancouver Charter
and the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia –
Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Councillor Pete Fry, Chair
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung (Vice-Chair)
Councillor Michael Wiebe
Archie G. Johnston (External Representative)
Karen Keilty (External Representative)
ALSO PRESENT: Mike Macdonell, Auditor General
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
WELCOMING AUDITOR GENERAL AND EXTERNAL REPRESENTATIVES
The Chair introduced the two External Advisory Liaison Committee Members, Archie G.
Johnston and Karen Keilty, and additionally, Mike Macdonell as the newly appointed Auditor
General for the City of Vancouver, and, along with the Committee, welcomed them onboard.
These appointments follow the November 4, 2020 Council approval of the establishment of the
Office of the Auditor General and the terms of reference for the Auditor General Recruitment
Committee (AGRC)* and the Auditor General Committee (AGC)*.

The AGRC, formed for the purpose of recruiting an independent Auditor General, was
comprised of Councillors Rebecca Bligh, Adriane Carr, Lisa Dominato, Colleen Hardwick as
Chair, and Sarah Kirby-Yung.
The two External Advisory Liaison Members, Archie G. Johnston and Karen Keilty, were
appointed on December 11, 2020.
Following the recruitment process, Mike Macdonell was the successful candidate selected as
the Auditor General for the City of Vancouver on August 9, 2021.
Archie G. Johnston, Karen Keilty and Mike Macdonell provided a summary of their background
and expertise that enables them to assist in the guidance and support on auditing issues to
Councillors and the overall vision of the Committee in improving public accountability.
*Terms of Reference amended, please refer to the minutes of the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting of November 4, 2020 for details.
1. Presentation: Auditor General Work Plan
Mike Macdonell, Auditor General, presented on the 100-day plan for establishing the office of
the Auditor General to the Committee, highlighting the structure, objectives and priorities.
* * * * *
At 1:26 pm, during the presentation, the Committee agreed to take a brief recess to address
technical difficulties; the Committee reconvened at 1:31 pm.
* * * * *
Following the presentation, the Auditor General responded to questions from the Committee.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Committee adjourned at 2:03 pm.
* * * * *