PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 13, 2021
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 13, 2021, at 6 pm, in the
Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by electronic
means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of
the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial Order
No. M192.
PRESENT: Deputy Mayor Christine Boyle
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Medical Leave – Item 3)
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart, Medical Leave
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Deputy Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and
look forward to working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Deputy Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. Miscellaneous Amendments Concerning Various CD-1 By-laws
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make miscellaneous amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law
to improve clarity, update references, correct inadvertent errors or omissions,
and improve the administration of the by-laws.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 13, 2021 2
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the
speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff provided an overview of the application.
Speakers
The Deputy Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:18 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council approves the application to:
(i) amend CD-1 (312) By-law No. 7200 for 510 Nicola Street and
1506-1590 Coal Harbour Quay to correct an inconsistency in the commercial
land use provisions for the Coal Harbour waterfront, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Referral Report dated June 8, 2021, entitled “Miscellaneous
Amendments Concerning Various CD-1 By-laws”;
(ii) amend CD-1 (590) By-law No. 11110 for 4055 Cambie Street (formerly
4099 Cambie Street) to permit a wider range of commercial uses, creating
consistency with more recently approved and comparable CD-1 by-laws,
generally as presented in Appendix B of the above-noted report; and
(iii) amend CD-1 (745) By-law No. 12726 for 686-688 East 22nd Avenue,
3811-3891 Fraser Street and 679 East 23rd Avenue to correct map labelling,
generally as presented in Appendix C of the above-noted report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07501)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 13, 2021 3
2. CD-1 REZONING: 546 West 13th Avenue
An application by the Soroptimist International of Vancouver, BC was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 546 West 13th Avenue from RM-3 (Residential) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
13-storey residential building with 135 social housing units. A height of 40.0 m
(131.2 ft.) and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 6.05 are recommended.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 49 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 12 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• 3 pieces of correspondence dealing with other aspects of the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented an overview of the application and
responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Carla Busnardo, Soroptimist International of Vancouver, provided opening comments and, along
with Carla Guerrera, Purpose Driven Development and Planning, Amela Brudar, GBL
Architects, and Annelise van der Veen, Purpose Driven Development and Planning, responded
to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to the applicant, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council suspend the rules of the Procedure By-law to allow a second round of
questions.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 13, 2021 4
Speakers
The Deputy Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Lenore Riddell, Treasurer, Soroptimist International of Vancouver
• Sharon Fisher
• Anna Forsyth
• Cody Spencer
• Janet Law
• Hilary Smith
• Randy Purcell
• Linda Purcell, Fundraising & Grants Manager, Latincouver Cultural & Business Society
• Marian Dyck
• Mahtab Laghaei, Researcher, Women Transforming Cities
• Donna Webb
• Derrich Milne
• Nadine Clark
The following spoke in opposition of the application:
• Georganne Oldham
• Shelley Cunningham
• Chris Graham
• Ryan Matthew
• Suzanne McManus
• Julianne
• Anne Wai
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:39 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Carla Guerrera, Purpose Driven Development and Planning, provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services and Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, responded to additional questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT the application by Soroptimist International of Vancouver, BC, the
registered owner, to rezone 546 West 13th Avenue [PID: 011-143-142 , Lot A of

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 13, 2021 5
Lot 5 Block 440 District Lot 526 Plan 5484; PID: 011-143-151, Lot A of Lot 6
Block 440 District Lot 526 Plan 5484; and PID: 011- 143-185, Lot A of Lot 7
Block 440 District Lot 526 Plan 5484] from RM-3 (Multiple-Dwelling Residential)
to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio
(FSR) from 1.11 to 6.05 and building height from 36.6 m (120.0 ft.) to 40.0 m
(131.2 ft.) to allow construction of a 13-storey social housing building with 135
units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report dated
June 11, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 546 West 13th Avenue”, be approved in
principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared in plans by GBL Architects received
December 1, 2020, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations
to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated June 11, 2021,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 546 West 13th Avenue”, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to pr07502epare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for
enactment prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services
and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOULSY (Vote No. 07502)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 13, 2021 6
3. CD-1 REZONING: 2929 Commercial Drive
An application by DYS Architecture was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 2929 Commercial Drive from C-2C1 (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of a
five-storey mixed-use building with a rooftop amenity floor, containing 27
social housing units. A height of 19.25 m (63.2 ft.) and a floor space ratio
(FSR) of 2.67 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
Two pieces of correspondence in support of the application was received since referral to Public
Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Staff Opening Comments
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff presented an overview of the application and
responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Dane Jansen, DYS Architecture, along with Allison Jambor, Vancouver Elementary School
Teacher’s Association, provided opening comments and responded to questions.
Speakers
The Deputy Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
Diego Pons, Founder, International Youth Support, spoke in support of the application.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:41 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT the application by DYS Architecture, on behalf of the Vancouver
Elementary School Teachers’ Association and the Vancouver Secondary
Teachers’ Association, the registered owners of the lands located at

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 13, 2021 7
2929 Commercial Drive [PID 005-402-069; Lot 2 Block 170 District Lot 264A Plan
14017] to rezone the lands from C-2C1 (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to limit the floor space ratio (FSR) from
3.00 down to 2.67 and to increase the building height from 13.8 m (45.2 ft.) to
19.25 m (63.2 ft.), to permit the development of a five-storey mixed-use building
with a rooftop amenity floor, containing 27 social housing units, generally as
presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report dated June 8, 2021, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 2929 Commercial Drive”, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared in plans by DYS Architecture received
November 23, 2020, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated June 8, 2021,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2929 Commercial Drive”, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as
may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
June 8, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2929 Commercial Drive”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval amendments to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
June 8, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2929 Commercial Drive”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 13, 2021 8
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07503)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote due to Medical Leave)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote due to Medical Leave)
The Public Hearing adjourned at 9:40 pm.
* * * * *