23 j3:08
REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 23 AND 24, 2021
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, June 23, 2021, at 9:35 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
Subsequently, the meeting reconvened on Thursday, June 24, 2021, at 3:02 pm. This meeting
was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public
Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act,
updated Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Councillor Adriane Carr, Chair* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business
3:00 pm to 4:00 pm on June 24, 2021)
Mayor Kennedy Stewart* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business
3:00 pm to 10:00 pm on June 23, 2021)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business
1:00 pm to 10:00 pm on June 23, 2021)
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Vice-Chair* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business 3:30 pm to 5:30 pm on June 23, 2021)
Councillor Jean Swanson* (Leave of Absence for Personal Reasons
12:30 pm to 2:30 pm on June 23, 2021)
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee adopt Items 2, 5, and 8 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. Jericho Lands Planning Program – Process Update and Consideration of Draft
Guiding Principles and Emerging Ideas to Guide Site Planning
April 20, 2021
Adrienne Charlie and Dennis Thomas, Cultural Liaisons to the Jericho Lands Project, began
with a Land Acknowledgement, which was followed by presentations from Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability staff as well as Elisa Campbell, Director of Real Estate, Canada
Lands Company. The presenters, along with staff from Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability and the Canada Lands Company, responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 10:16 am, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee enter into a second round of questions to staff on Item 1 “Jericho
Lands Planning Program – Process Update and Consideration of Draft Guiding
Principles and Emerging Ideas to Guide Site Planning".
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion and two speakers who
provided general comments on the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council endorse the Jericho Lands draft Guiding Principles, generally as
attached in Appendix A, of the Report dated April 20, 2021, entitled “Jericho
Lands Planning Program – Process update and consideration of draft Guiding
Principles and Emerging Ideas to guide site planning”, to provide guidance for
the creation of the Jericho Lands Policy Statement.
B. THAT Council endorse the Jericho Lands draft Emerging Ideas, generally as
attached in Appendix B, of the Report dated April 20, 2021, entitled “Jericho
Lands Planning Program – Process update and consideration of draft Guiding
Principles and Emerging Ideas to guide site planning”,to provide guidance for the

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 3
creation of a conceptual site plan to be included in the Jericho Lands Policy
Statement.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07424)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. 2021 Annual Inflationary Rate Adjustment to Development Contributions &
Associated DCL Amendment
June 7, 2021
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the 2021 inflationary rate adjustments for the
Vancouver (City-wide) Development Cost Levy (DCL) By-law, Vancouver Utilities
DCL By-law and Area Specific DCL By-law, with new rates to be effective
September 30, 2021, as shown in Appendix A of the Report dated June 7, 2021,
entitled “2021 Annual Inflationary Rate Adjustment to Development Contributions
& Associated DCL Amendment”;
FURTHER THAT Council maintain the existing Vancouver (City-wide) DCL
By-law rates, Vancouver Utilities DCL By-law rates, and Area Specific DCL
Bylaw rates for artist studio, community centres/neighbourhood house, library,
public authority use, social service centre, parking garage, temporary building,
school, childcare, community energy centre, and works yard uses;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for enactment amendments to the Vancouver Development Cost Levy
By-law, Vancouver Utilities Development Cost Levy By-law, and the Area
Specific Development Costs Levy By-law to implement the 2021 inflationary rate
adjustment, as shown in Appendix B, Appendix C and Appendix D in the above-
noted Report.
B. THAT Council approve the 2021 inflationary rate adjustments for Community
Amenity Contribution (CAC) targets, with new target rates to be effective
September 30, 2021, as shown in Appendix E of the Report dated June 7, 2021,
entitled “2021 Annual Inflationary Rate Adjustment to Development Contributions
& Associated DCL Amendment”.
C. THAT Council approve, in principle, an amendment to the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law and the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost
Levy By-law to maintain the lower DCL rate category for Low Operational Cost
Housing projects in cases where the 5% floor area increase would cause a
higher DCL rate to apply effective immediately, as generally set out in Appendix
F and Appendix G of the Report dated June 7, 2021, entitled “2021 Annual
Inflationary Rate Adjustment to Development Contributions & Associated DCL
Amendment”;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 4
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law and
the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost Levy By-law, as generally shown in
Appendix F and Appendix G in the above-noted Report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07423)
3. 2021 Annual Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions –
WITHDRAWN
4. Hasting Park - PNE Master Plan Program - Amphitheatre Renewal
June 9, 2021
John Brodie, Project Manager, Pacific National Exhibition, provided a presentation and, along
with staff from Pacific National Exhibition and Parks and Recreation, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from 13 speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
At 11:54 am, during the presentation, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee extend past noon to complete hearing the presentation on Item 4
“HP-PNE Master Plan Program - Amphitheatre Renewal”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Subsequently, at 12:18 pm after the presentation, it was
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee hear public speakers on Item 4 “HP-PNE Master Plan Program -
Amphitheatre Renewal”, prior to asking questions of staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
On June 23, 2021, the Committee recessed at 12:20 pm and reconvened at 3:15 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 5
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle the Amphitheatre Renewal project as outlined
in the Report dated June 9, 2021, entitled “Hastings Park - PNE Master Plan
Program: Amphitheatre Renewal”.
B. THAT Council direct staff to proceed to the planning and design phase of the
Amphitheatre Renewal project, and provide Council an update prior to
construction.
C. THAT, subject to approval of A and B above , Council approve the addition of
$7.1M to the Multi-Year Capital Project Budgets and Annual Expenditure
Budgets; sources of funding to be:
i. $6.0M from the Capital Financing Fund to be added to the 2019-2022
Capital Plan for the planning and design work and preliminary project
infrastructure upgrades associated with the Amphitheatre Renewal
Project; and
ii. $1.1M from the approved 2019-2022 Capital Plan funding (Hastings Park
Reserve) for implementation of Hastings Park Master Plan for site-wide
infrastructure renewal.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be added to B:
FURTHER THAT staff endeavour to expedite the project with the goal of
delivering a completed new venue earlier than the currently projected 2026,
recognizing this is an important economic and cultural stimulus project that meets
the identified critical void of a lack of performance space in Vancouver.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07427)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07428), with Mayor Stewart and Councillor Hardwick absent due to
Civic Business.
5. Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board – Annual Report 2020
April 26, 2021
A. THAT Council approve the 2020 Annual Report of the Vancouver Heritage
Foundation attached as Appendix A of the Report dated April 26, 2021, entitled
“Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board - Annual Report 2020”.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 6
B. THAT Council approve payment of a grant to the Vancouver Heritage Foundation
in the amount of $138,011 to be used as operating funds for the second year of
the three-year operating agreement (2020-2022), source of funding is the 2021
Capital Budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07425)
6. 333 Carrall Street - Closure of Portions of Street and Lanes for Heritage Building
Encroachments
May 19, 2021
a. Staff Report
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to apply and raise title in
the name of the City of Vancouver to the portion of Carrall Street, the portion of
lane north of West Hastings Street, and the portion of lane between West
Hastings Street and Carrall Street, that contain the encroachments of the existing
building at 333 Carrall Street (the “Road and Lanes”), the said portions being
shown on a reduced copy of a Reference Plan attached as Appendix A of the
Report dated May 19, 2021, entitled “333 Carrall Street - Closure of Portions of
Street and Lanes for Heritage Building Encroachments“.
B. THAT all those volumetric portions of Road and Lanes included within the heavy
outline and illustrated isometrically on a plan of survey, a reduced copy of which
is attached as Appendix B of the Report dated May 19, 2021, entitled “333 Carrall
Street - Closure of Portions of Street and Lanes for Heritage Building
Encroachments“, be closed, stopped-up and that an easement be granted to the
owner of abutting [PID: 030-721-032] Lot 1 of Lot 17 Block 3 Old Granville
Townsite Plan EPP88209 (“Lot 1”) to contain the portions of the existing building
which encroach onto the Road and Lanes, to the satisfaction of the Director of
Legal Services.
C. THAT the fees for the document preparation, registration and use of the
easement referred to in B above are to be in accordance with those prescribed
under the Encroachment By-law.
D. THAT the Director of Legal Services be authorized to execute all documents and
plans required.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07429)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote due to Civic Business)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 7
b. Resolution
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT WHEREAS:
1. The City of Vancouver is the owner of all the streets and lanes lying within
the limits of the City of Vancouver;
2. Portions of brick building face, and first and second level building cornices
of the heritage building and first and seventh level building overhangs on
the new building constructed on Lot 1 of Lot 17, Block 3, Old Granville
Townsite, Plan EPP88209 (“Lot 1”) encroach onto Carrall Street, the
portion of lane north of West Hastings Street and the portion of lane
between West Hastings Street and Carrall Street (the “Road and Lanes”);
3. The Road and Lanes which are encroached upon, abutting said Lot 1,
were dedicated by the deposit of Plan 168 and Plan 307;
4. To provide for the registration of an easement to contain the said
encroachments onto the Road and Lanes, as required by Section 244 of
the Strata Property Act, it is necessary to raise title to the portions of the
Road and Lanes that are encroached upon; and
5. To enable Council to grant the required easement to contain the said
encroachments, it is necessary for Council to close and stop-up the
volumetric portions of the Road and Lanes that are encroached upon.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Director of Legal Services be authorized to
make application on behalf of the City of Vancouver to raise title in the name of the City
of Vancouver to that portion of road and lane dedicated by the deposit of Plan 168, and
that portion of lane dedicated by the deposit of Plan 307, included within the heavy bold
outline on the Reference Plan, Plan EPP111964, completed by Peter Muralt, B.C.L.S.,
on the 7th day of June, 2021, and numbered H-3284S, a reduced copy of which is
attached hereto; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT all that volumetric portion of Carrall Street, the
portion of lane north of West Hastings Street and the portion of lane between West
Hastings Street and Carrall Street included within heavy bold outline and illustrated
isometrically on the Explanatory Plan, Plan EPP111965, completed by Peter Muralt,
B.C.L.S., on the 7th day of June, 2021, and numbered H-3284T, a reduced copy of
which is also attached, be closed, stopped-up and that an easement be granted to the
owner of abutting Lot 1 of Lot 17, Block 3, Old Granville Townsite, Plan EPP88209 to
contain the portions of brick building face, and first and second level building cornices of
the heritage building and first and seventh level building overhangs on the new building
which encroach onto Carrall Street, the portion of lane north of West Hastings Street and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 8
the portion of lane between West Hastings Street and Carrall Street; the said easement
to be to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07430)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
* * * * *
On June 23, 2021, the Committee recessed at 4:50 pm and reconvened at 6:00 pm.
* * * * *
7. SRO Upgrade Grant to Atira Women’s Resource Society – 1119 Hornby St (Murray
Hotel)
June 8, 2021
Celine Mauboules, Acting Managing Director of Homelessness Services and Affordable Housing
Program, Arts, Culture and Community Services, along with staff from Arts, Culture and
Community Services, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve a grant of $350,000 to the charitable institution, Atira
Women’s Resource Society, under section 206(1)(a) of the Vancouver Charter,
to be spent on building upgrades to the SRA-designated Murray Hotel, located at
1119 Hornby Street; with the source of funding to be the 2021 Capital Budget for
the SRO Upgrade granting program (SRO grants), subject to:
i. Atira Women’s Resource Society extending the existing lease with the
owner of the Murray Hotel, Kenstone Properties, for an additional 10
years (until 2042);
ii. all required development and building permits having been issued by the
City;
iii. Atira Women’s Resource Society executing and delivering to the City of
Vancouver a grant agreement on terms satisfactory to the Director of
Legal Services;
iv. Atira Women’s Resource Society, and the owner of the Murray Hotel,
entering into and registering on title to the property an amended Housing
Agreement to:
(a) extend the term for an additional 10 years, to 2042;
(b) secure 103 rooms at rents no greater than the shelter component
of income assistance (currently $375 for a single person); and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 9
(c) such other terms and conditions as the Director of Legal Services
in consultation with the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services may require.
B. THAT, subject to the approval of A above and execution of the Housing
Agreement contemplated by A above, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for enactment the By-law necessary to approve the
Housing Agreement.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights
for the applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of
the City and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at
risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
ii. THAT any approval that may be granted following the hearing of
this matter by Council shall not obligate the City to enact a
Housing Agreement By-law, and any costs incurred in fulfilling
requirements imposed by the foregoing resolutions are at the risk
of the property owner; and
iii. THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
directed in exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
Prior to the vote, the Committee agreed to separate the components of the motion. The motion
was put with A having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07431) with Mayor Stewart and
Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote due to Civic Business, and B and C having CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07433) with Mayor Stewart and Councillor Hardwick absent for the
vote due to Civic Business.
8. Report Back on Joint Vancouver City Council - Vancouver School Board
Committee to Collaborate on Capital Projects
June 4, 2021
A. THAT a sub-committee of Council be created, in partnership with the Vancouver
School Board, pursuant to Section 159 of the Vancouver Charter and that it be
called the “Joint VSB-CoV Elected Officials Planning & Facilities Committee.”
B. THAT the draft Terms of Reference for the Joint VSB-CoV Elected Officials
Planning & Facilities Committee be as follows, to be confirmed by the Committee
at its first meeting, with any substantive changes to be returned to Council for
approval:
i. To receive information and liaise on matters related to VSB’s and
the City of Vancouver’s respective capital projects and long-range
plans as well as other related strategies, plans, trends, and project
challenges for the purpose of collaborating to serve communities

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 10
in Vancouver and identifying opportunities for improvement and
for joint advocacy to senior levels of government;
ii. To be comprised of three City Councillors, three Vancouver
School Board Trustees, and one Vancouver Park Board
Commissioner should they choose to appoint a representative;
iii. That the Committee meet on a semi-annual (twice annual) basis
until November 2022, with the first meeting taking place Fall 2021;
iv. That the Joint VSB-CoV Elected Officials Planning & Facilities
Committee not be delegated any executive or administrative
powers, without Council’s prior approval and consent; and
v. Be facilitated with support from the office of the City Manager or
designate and the Vancouver School Board.
C. THAT, should A above be approved, the Mayor’s Office initiate a communication
to Council to self-nominate to participate in the proposed Committee, with a
membership vote to be held at the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities in September 2021.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07426)
9. Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 to Allow Electric Kick
Scooters on Protected Bike Lanes and Minor Streets
June 14, 2021
Lon LaClaire, General Manager of Engineering Services and Paul Storer, Director of
Transportation, Engineering Services, along with staff from Engineering Services and Legal
Services, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the use of “electric kick scooters” on protected bike lanes
and minor streets until April 5, 2024, as part of the Provincial pilot project.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law
No. 2849 as detailed in the Report dated June 14, 2021, entitled “Amendments to
the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 to Allow Electric Kick Scooters on
Protected Bike Lanes and Minor Streets” and Appendix “A” of the same Report.
C. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 as generally
set out in Appendix “A” of the Report dated June 14, 2021, entitled “Amendments
to the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 to Allow Electric Kick Scooters on
Protected Bike Lanes and Minor Streets”.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 11
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council in early 2023 with interim
findings from the pilot.
amended
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council refer Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 to Allow
Electric Kick Scooters on Protected Bike Lanes and Minor Streets back to staff with
direction to negotiate an agreement with the Province in order to indemnify the City of
Vancouver from any potential or actual legal liability, for the remainder of the Province’s
3-year Electric Kick Scooter Pilot.
LOST (Vote No. 07434)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Swanson, and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT B be amended to add at the following words to the end “but without the proposed
section 6 of the draft by law”;
FURTHER THAT C be amended to add the following words at the end “but as altered by
B”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07435) - reconsidered
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained for the vote)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
At 8:14 pm, after the vote on the amendment, Councillor Bligh rose on a point of order under
Section 8.14(b) of the Procedure By-law as a similar motion at the July 7, 2020 Council meeting
was lost and is in conflict of the amended motion. The Chair provided options to Council to
consider without providing a definitive ruling to the point of order. Subsequently, Councillor
Kirby-Yung challenged the Chair’s ruling and rose on a point of procedure under Section 4.5(c)
of the Procedure By-law by stating that the amendment cannot be ruled out of order as it
already passed. The vote to challenge the Chair’s ruling was put and LOST with Councillors De
Genova and Kirby-Yung opposed and Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the
vote due to Civic Business.
* * * * *
On June 23, 2021, the Committee recessed at 9:37 pm and
reconvened on June 24, 2021, at 3:02 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 12
On June 24, 2021, following a brief summary of the status of Item 9, Councillor Carr requested a
reconsideration of the adopted amendment passed yesterday, June 23, 2021.
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the adopted amendment to 9. Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law No.
2849 to Allow Electric Kick Scooters on Protected Bike Lanes and Minor Streets, be
reconsidered.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.7437)
(Councillors De Genova and Wiebe abstained from the vote)
At 3:17 pm, during reconsideration of Councillor Wiebe’s amendment, Councillor Boyle rose on
a point of order under Section 8.7(d) of the Procedure By-law as a similar amendment at the
July 7, 2020, Council meeting was lost and could not be bought back to Council within 365 days
of the date the motion was defeated. The Chair ruled in favour of Councillor Boyle’s point of
order and ruled Councillor Wiebe’s amendment to Item 9, out of order.
AMENDMENT MOVED BY Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT, D be amended as follows:
 strike the words “in early 2023” and replace with “before the end of May,
2022”; and
 add the word “initial” before the words “interim findings”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07438)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
Prior to the vote, the Committee agreed to separate the components of the motion as amended
with A and D having CARRIED (Vote No. 07440) with Councillor Fry opposed and Councillor
Hardwick absent for the vote, and B and C having CARRIED (Vote No. 07441) with Councillors
De Genova and Fry opposed and Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve the use of “electric kick scooters” on protected bike lanes
and minor streets until April 5, 2024, as part of the Provincial pilot project.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law
No. 2849 as detailed in the Report dated June 14, 2021, entitled “Amendments to
the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 to Allow Electric Kick Scooters on
Protected Bike Lanes and Minor Streets” and Appendix A of the same Report.
C. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 as generally
set out in Appendix “A” of the Report June 14, 2021, entitled “Amendments to the
Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 to Allow Electric Kick Scooters on Protected
Bike Lanes and Minor Streets”.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 13
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council before the end of May, 2022
with initial interim findings from the pilot.
10. Endorsing the Vote16BC Campaign to Lower the Voting Age to 16 across British
Columbia (Previously Motion B.3)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below and as such the motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as
Unfinished Business. Subsequently on June 22, 2021, the motion was referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Youth have a strong interest in the future of local communities, and decisions
made at a local level stand to have a significant impact on whether they continue
to be able to call that community home, as well as the health and safety of that
community over their lifetime. Youth have the most at stake in political decisions
being made right now, and deserve a say in what lies ahead;
2. Empowering young people to participate in democratic processes fosters
ongoing and active civic participation. Studies show that if first time voters have
social and educational support — which are more likely to be available when you
live with parents/guardians and attend school — they are more likely to vote
again. New research also shows that younger voters create a “trickle up” effect,
where parents and other adults in their lives are more likely to vote when youth
do;
3. Many youth are on the front lines during the pandemic, and will bear the brunt of
economic, social and environmental consequences, from lost jobs to family
stress, mental health, unstable education, a housing crisis, and uncertain futures.
As fully participating members of society, they deserve to have a say in the
decisions made around BC's recovery and forever-changed post-pandemic
future;
4. In 2019, the Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) endorsed a resolution calling on
the province to revise the minimum voting age in local government elections to
16 years of age;
5. The campaign to lower the voting age to 16 has been endorsed by 20 non-
profits, unions, and labour councils, including BC Teachers Federation, BCGEU,
and Sustainabiliteens. It has also been endorsed at conventions of both the BC
NDP and the BC Green Party; and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 14
6. Several jurisdictions worldwide, including Austria, Argentina, and Scotland, have
lowered the voting age to 16.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council formally endorses the Vote16BC campaign to
lower the voting age to 16 in British Columbia.
B. THAT Council requests the Mayor to write a letter to the Premier and the Minister
of Municipal Affairs informing them of this endorsement.
CARRIED UNAMIOUSLY (Vote No. 07442)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
11. Supporting Hotel Workers’ Right to Return to Their Jobs at Living Wages
(Previously Motion B.4)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below and as such the motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as
Unfinished Business. Subsequently on June 22, 2021, the motion was referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
WHEREAS
1. The COVID pandemic has exacerbated existing inequalities and its social,
health, and economic impacts are particularly devastating for women and
racialized communities;
2. The tourism and hospitality industries have been drastically impacted;
3. Of the 50,000 hotel workers in BC that were laid of in March 2020, the majority
are women and/or people of colour;
4. The duration of the pandemic means that recall rights require extension;
5. There are reports of hotels in British Columbia refusing to commit to bringing
workers back to their jobs when business returns;
6. UNITE HERE Local 40 launched a campaign called BC Unequal Women to draw
public attention to the devastating impact of the pandemic on racialized women in
the hospitality industry;
7. The City of Vancouver is committed to a COVID recovery plan that takes better
care of people, the environment, and the community than the systems we had

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 15
before the pandemic; and
8. Hotel workers and people who work in the tourism industry as valued and
valuable members of our community.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirms that people should not lose their livelihoods due to the
pandemic.
B. THAT Council requests the Mayor to write to the Ministers of Labour and Tourism
expressing Council’s support for the right for laid off workers to return to their
jobs when the pandemic eases.
C. THAT Council affirms its support for Local 40’s Unequal Women campaign to
return all workers, including racialized women, to their jobs as the tourism
business recovers.
D. THAT Council requests the Mayor to write to the Lower Mainland Local
Government Association and Union of BC Municipalities encouraging them to
host future conferences and events in venues that respect worker rights and pay
at least a living wage.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07443)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung abstained from the vote)
(Councillors Bligh and Hardwick absent for the vote)
12. Pursuing Emission-Free Landscaping Equipment in the City of Vancouver
(Previously Motion B.6)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below and as such the motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as
Unfinished Business. Subsequently on June 22, 2021, the motion was referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
On June 24, 2021 at 4:50 pm, Councillor Carr relinquished the Chair to Vice-Chair Kirby-Yung in
order to participate in debate.
Subsequently, at 4:52 pm, prior to hearing from speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council extend past 5 pm to hear from the two speakers for item 12. Pursuing
Emission-Free Landscaping Equipment in the City of Vancouver.
CARRIED UNANIMIOUSLY

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 16
* * * * *
On June 24, 2021, during the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 5:10 pm and
reconvened at 6:06 pm.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion and one speaker in
opposition of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. The use of landscaping equipment powered by gasoline two-stroke engines,
including leaf-blowers, hedge trimmers, line trimmers, chain saws and pole saws,
contributes significantly to air pollution, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and
noise pollution in the City of Vancouver;
2. Gallon for gallon of gasoline used, the small gasoline engines found in lawn
mowers, leaf blowers, and other power equipment pollute at a higher rate than
other equipment and vehicles. One hour of operation of a commercial leaf
blower can emit as much pollution in the form of ROG (reactive organic gases)
and NOx (nitrogen oxides) as driving 1,100 miles (1,770 km) in a new passenger
vehicle (Source: 2021 California State Legislature Bill AB-1346 Air Pollution:
small off-road engines);
3. ROG and NOx significantly contribute to ozone and particulate pollution which
pose a significant risk to both human and environmental health and contribute to
the declining populations of insect species, including pollinator insects like
butterflies and bees;
4. Metro Vancouver is seeking public input to June 15, 2021 on its 2021 Clean Air
Plan including reducing regional greenhouse gas emissions by 45% over 2010
levels by 2030 and reducing health-harming air contaminants - see
http://www.metrovancouver.org/services/air-quality/engagement/clean-air-
plan/Pages/default.aspx . Strategy 3.2 Reduce Non-Road Emissions and
Support Early Adoption of Zero Emission Non-Road Equipment does not
currently include landscaping equipment;
5. Equipment powered by two-stroke engines produce levels of noise varying from
75 to 110 decibels. Sounds above 85 decibels are deemed harmful by the
Government of B.C. Furthermore, two-stroke engines often produce noise in the
low-frequency range which travel further and penetrate deeper than noise at
higher frequency, hence creating wider-spread neighborhood disturbance and
greater health hazards to equipment users.
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/04/james-fallows-leaf-
blower-ban/583210/
https://www.healthlinkbc.ca/health-topics/tf4173

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 17
6. Recent advances in battery technology has resulted in the development of
competitive battery-powered landscaping equipment equivalent or quasi-
equivalent to most gas-powered landscaping equipment. The battery-powered
equipment produces much less noise and vibration, no direct emissions of GHGs
or health-harming air contaminants, and is often lighter than its gas-powered
counterpart. These technological advances are expected to continue;
7. Many political jurisdictions have banned or are considering banning or phasing
out gasoline two-stroke engines including Toronto, Oak Bay, Oakland, Berkley,
Los Angeles and the State of California;
8. In 2001 Vancouver City Council voted to ban gas-powered leaf blowers in the city
by 2004, however Noise Control Bylaw 6555 only bans the use of leaf blowers in
the West End and otherwise restricts the use of leaf blowers to certain times of
day and distancing from residences and restricts the allowable equipment to “low
noise” leaf blowers - see https://vancouver.ca/your-government/noise-control-
bylaw.aspx ;
9. On January 14, 2019, the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation passed a
resolution titled ‘Renewal Strategy for Landscape Equipment – Towards an
Emission-Free Reality’ aimed at phasing out two-stroke engines from its
operational activities. By December 2020, 33% of all Park Board equipment was
‘zero-emission’. Full transition is expected to be completed by the end of 2024. A
U.B.C. study estimated that if the Park Board switched all of its 2-stroke engines
to electric, by year two it would save $300,000 to $450,000 per year;
10. In 2019 the Vancouver School Board also passed a motion to develop a
transition plan to replace gas-powered landscaping equipment with emission-free
alternatives;
11. Vancouver has adopted plans to ban other environmentally egregious items,
such as plastic straws and plastic bags. https://vancouver.ca/news-calendar/city-
postpones-fee-on-single-use-cups-and-ban-on-plastic-shopping-bags-to-
2022.aspx ; and
12. On March 31, 2021 Council passed a motion initiating a moratorium on any new
member motions that would result in new work for the staff involved in issuing
development and building permits and business licenses until the end of 2021.
Because the work to research, consult on and develop a plan for emissions-free
landscaping equipment in the City of Vancouver heavily involves the
Development, Buildings and Licensing department, Council cannot direct staff to
develop such a plan until the moratorium has ended.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT City Council, in order to provide a helpful forward-looking signal to the
public, landscaping companies and other related businesses, affirm the goal of
pursuing emissions-free landscaping equipment in the City of Vancouver by
2025.
B. THAT City Council direct staff to provide input into Metro Vancouver’s draft 2021

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 18
Clean Air Plan (deadline for public input is June 15, 2021) urging Metro
Vancouver’s development of stringent emission regulations and requirements for
landscaping equipment.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07444)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
13. Issuing an Official Apology from the City of Vancouver to the Italian Canadian
Community During Italian Heritage Month in 2022 (Previously Motion B.8)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below and as such the motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as
Unfinished Business. Subsequently on June 22, 2021, the motion was referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The Italian Community has been a part of Vancouver since the 1800s and grew
through waves of Italian immigration to Canada. A substantial wave of
immigration was prompted by the Second World War, with many Italians fleeing
Italy to escape the fascist regime. Notably the Italian Canadian community in
Vancouver has ties to East Vancouver neighbourhoods including Grandview
Woodlands, Hastings Sunrise, and Strathcona;
2. On June 10, 1940, the Government of Canada, upon a unanimous resolution in
the House of Commons, declared war against Italy following Benito Mussolini’s
declaration of war against Great Britain and France;
3. Shortly after declaring war against Italy in 1940, the Canadian Federal
Government designated Italian nationals, and Italian Canadians naturalized after
1922, as ‘enemy aliens’. Over 600 Italian-Canadians, including 44 from the
Vancouver area were taken from their families and sent to internment camps.
Although they were never criminally charged, this result caused irreparable harm
and hardship to many families;
4. Of the approximately 4,500 Italians in Vancouver, 1,800 were designated as
“enemy aliens” and were required to file monthly reports with the RCMP
regarding their activities and whereabouts;
5. Under the War Measures Act, over 600 Italians across Canada, 44 of whom were
from the Vancouver area, were arrested by the RCMP and interned in camps
without being charged with any criminal activity;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 19
6. On February 16, 1942, Vancouver City Council passed a motion imploring the
Federal Government “to remove all residents of Japanese racial origin and
enemy aliens to areas of Canada well-removed from the Pacific Coast and that
their removal be under such conditions as will provide them with the essentials of
a reasonable livelihood”;
7. The reference to “enemy aliens” in the February 16,1942, Council motion has
long been viewed by some as unjustly and unfairly directed at the Italian
community and contrary to the principles of fundamental human rights;
8. On April 28, 2010, Parliament passed Bill C-302, the Italian-Canadian
Recognition and Restitution Act, to recognize the injustice that was done to
persons of Italian origin through their “enemy alien” designation and internment
during the Second World War, and to provide for restitution and promote
education on Italian-Canadian history;
9. On March 21, 2011, Bill C-302, the Italian-Canadian Recognition and Restitution
Act, received Second Reading in the Senate and was referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and Technology;
10. On March 26, 2011, the Governor General dissolved the 40th Parliament, and
Bill C-302, the Italian-Canadian Recognition and Restitution Act, died on the
order paper;
11. On February 27, 2013, Vancouver City Council, in support of reconciliation with
Aboriginal peoples, voted unanimously to support the recommendation of
Reconciliation Canada to proclaim June 21, 2013 to June 20 2014, as the Year
of Reconciliation in Vancouver and to name Vancouver a City of Reconciliation;
12. On September 25, 2013, Vancouver City Council unanimously passed a motion
to apologize for the City of Vancouver’s role in the 1942 Internment of Japanese
Canadians, by formally apologizing for its complicity, inaction, and failure to
protect the city’s residents of Japanese descent, and pledged to do all that the
City can to ensure such injustices will not happen again to any of its residents
and to uphold the principles of human rights, justice and equality now and in the
future;
13. On May 27, 2014, Vancouver City Council voted unanimously to direct staff to
conduct research into the laws, regulations and policies of previous Councils that
discriminated against the people of Chinese descent in the City of Vancouver
and directed staff to report back with recommendations on steps and actions in
support of reconciliation, including a public acknowledgement and formal
apology;
14. In 2018, Vancouver City Council passed a motion to include Italian Heritage
Month in the City of Vancouver’s official celebrations and Observances;
15. On April 22, 2018, Vancouver City Council convened a special meeting in
Chinatown where a formal apology on behalf of the City of Vancouver was
delivered for past discrimination against people of Chinese descent;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 20
16. Council approved funding in the 2020 budget for staff to work with the South
Asian community on historical discrimination, including consideration for an
apology;
17. For almost 40 years, The National Congress of Italians, The Order of Sons and
Daughters of Italy, and the National Federation of Canadian Italian Business
Professional Association have been working together and calling on the
Government of Canada to make a formal apology for the treatment of Italian
Canadians during the Second World War; and
18. On May 27, 2021, in Parliament, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau formally
apologized to Italian Canadians. He said, “To the tens of thousands of innocent
Italian Canadians who were labelled enemy aliens, to the children and
grandchildren who have carried a past generation's shame and hurt and to their
community, a community that has given so much to our country, we are sorry.”.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council demonstrate its commitment to upholding the
principles of human rights, justice, and reconciliation by acknowledging and
issuing an official apology to the Italian-Canadian community for any injustice
and harm to persons of Italian origin or ethnicity that occurred as a result of the
actions of the City of Vancouver, including the reference to “enemy aliens” in the
Vancouver City Council motion of February 16, 1942;
FURTHER THAT Council further demonstrate this commitment by directing staff
to conduct research, in consultation with organizations representing the Italian-
Canadian community in Vancouver, including ‘Il Centro’ - The Italian Cultural
Centre, for a proclamation of Official Apology from the City of Vancouver to be
delivered during Italian Heritage Month in 2022, for any historical actions, policies
or public support of measures that contributed to discrimination of Italian-
Canadians because of their ancestry;
AND FURTHER THAT this official apology be posted on the City of Vancouver
website.
B. THAT Vancouver City Council request the Mayor to write a letter to the Prime
Minister on behalf of the City of Vancouver, in support of the federal
government’s apology to Italian Canadians;
FURTHER THAT this letter notify the federal government of this motion and the
commitment of Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver to right the
wrongs, harm and discrimination caused to Italian-Canadians because of their
ancestry.
C. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to work with The Italian Cultural Centre
- ‘Il Centro’ and the Public Art Committee to consider and possibly identify
opportunities for an installation of Public Art to commemorate the City of
Vancouver’s official apology to the Italian-Canadian community in Vancouver;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 21
FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council with information and any
recommendations as soon as possible.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07446)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
14. Vancouver Blueway Cleanup (Previously Motion B.9)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below and as such the motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as
Unfinished Business. Subsequently on June 22, 2021, the motion was referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is a Clean Shoreline Community supporting a number of
volunteer cleanups leading to 13,781 kgs of litter being removed since 2017;
2. The City of Vancouver’s Waterfront Initiative for major natural waterways
engages First Nations, industry, senior levels of government and adjacent
municipalities, and the community to focus on establishing and implementing a
series of Quick Starts including those focused on measures to make high use
waterways in Trout Lake and False Creek safely accessible by swimmers;
https://council.vancouver.ca/20170530/documents/motionb1.pdf;
3. In 2019, Council approved the formalization of the False Creek to the Fraser
River Blueway which included outlining appropriate resourcing and coordination
of staff, including exploring the establishment of a Blueways Enhancement Fund;
https://council.vancouver.ca/20190514/documents/motionb3.pdf;
4. In late 2021, the City of Vancouver will embark on an innovative planning and
design challenge, called The Sea2City Design Challenge, that will create a
vision to guide urban development and ecological revitalization in False
Creek and along the Fraser River Foreshore;
5. In 2021, the Vancouver Plastic Cleanup Coalition was formed to use state of
the art technology and citizen science to help cleanup Vancouver Blueways.
The coalition includes non-profit organizations and hosts with a currently
membership of the Peter Wall Charitable Foundation, Dentist on Demand,
Great Lakes Plastic Cleanup, Pollution Probe, Skookum Yacht Services,
Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, Sea Village Marina, Maritime
Market Marina Ltd., and the U of T Trash Team;
6. Vancouver Plastic Cleanup, Seabin Project (https://seabinproject.com) is a
three-phase Seabin installation plan, starting with three, and working up to a
total of 12 Seabins in the next three years. This initiative uses state of the art
technology to quickly remove plastics in Vancouver’s Blueways. The first

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 22
three Seabins are targeted to be installed on Granville Island and is currently
operating successfully in Victoria, Sidney and Sooke BC;
7. The Vancouver Plastic Program connects people to the water’s edge and
leverages that network of data to restore Vancouver’s Blueways. It would be
supported by the Community Based Water Monitoring Hub out of Granville
Island operated by the charity Swim Drink Fish;
8. Indigenous Guardian Programs help Indigenous Nations honour the cultural
responsibility to care for lands and waters. Guardians are trained experts
who manage protected areas, restore animals and plants, test water quality
and monitor programs; and
9. The City of Vancouver in partnership with the Park Board is advancing a
Seabin pilot through the City’s Aquatic Environments Action Plan, which
included the False Creek Water Quality Improvement Initiative, the City (via
REFM-Environmental Service) and the Park Board to work collaboratively to
install a Seabin in False Creek for the 2021 summer season.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council endorse the Vancouver Plastic
Cleanup, Seabin Project and ask staff to report back on the feasibility for the City of
Vancouver becoming a host location and coalition partner;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back on new initiatives to support
volunteer clean-ups and Indigenous Guardian Programs to Council in 2022, as part
of the annual Aquatic Environmental Action Plan report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07448)
(Councillors Hardwick and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
15. Reconnecting to the Sto:lo (Fraser River) (Previously Motion B.10)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below and as such the motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as
Unfinished Business. Subsequently on June 22, 2021, the motion was referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers, followed by debate and decision.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. In 1988, Vancouver City Council adopted the Fraser River and Burrard Inlet
Waterfront Policy which outlines plans for a continuous waterfront walkway along
the North Fraser waterfront, and requires developers, where feasible, to
construct shoreline protection and a 25 foot (7.6 m) public access walkway along
the river;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 23
2. In 1995, Vancouver City Council adopted a Greenways Plan which includes a
continuous trail from Burnaby to Pacific Spirit Park along the north shore of the
Fraser River (Sto:lo);
3. In 2003, the Eburne Lands Coordinating Group (ELCG) was formed in part to
protect, preserve and rehabilitate the foreshore of the Fraser River;
4. In 2005, the Fraser Basin Council (FBC) connected the four orders of
government (federal, provincial, local and First Nations) with private sector and
civil society interests to find common ground and develop “made-in-the-
community” solutions to regional and basin-wide sustainability challenges;
5. In 2013, City Council approved the Renfrew Ravine Master Plan which outlines
ways to improve water quality and access to the Ravine which is the headwaters
to a salmon tributary that connects to the Fraser River. The Plan identifies
multiple opportunities to improve the corridor.
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/Master-Plan-Renfrew-Ravine-Community-Parks-
09012013.pdf;
6. In 2014, Vancouver City Council endorsed Metro Vancouver’s Experience the
Fraser North Arm Addendum Concept Plan which aims to create a continuous
trail system along the Fraser River connecting the Salish Sea (Strait of Georgia)
from xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) to SHXW'OWHÁMÉL (Hope).
https://council.vancouver.ca/20140625/documents/ptec4.pdf;
7. In 2017, Province and The Musqueam Indian Band signed an MOU on land and
water authorizations and stewardship in the estuary and lower reaches of the
Fraser River including a framework that will guide land and water authorizations
through improved engagement between the Musqueam Indian Band and the
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations;
8. In 2018 Vancouver City Council approved the Cambie Corridor Public Realm
Plan which includes directions to work with the Vancouver Park Board to develop
the Fraser River Trail, and provide a waterfront destination within a riverfront park
setting, and improve wayfinding to the Fraser River
Trail. https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/marpole-community-plan.pdf;
9. The 2019, Vancouver Park Board VanPlay Strategy outlines a greenway
connection from Little Mountain (Queen Elizabeth Park) to Big River (Fraser
River). https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/vanplay-strategic-bold-moves-report.pdf;
10. In 2019, Council voted to refresh the 1995 Vancouver Greenways Plan which
prioritizes strategies for collaborating with key groups and governments and
highlights the need to clarify the roles of the City of Vancouver, the Vancouver
Park Board, Metro Vancouver and First Nations in the service delivery of
greenways and the centralization, resourcing and coordination of staff.
https://council.vancouver.ca/20190402/documents/motionb3.pdf;
11. The City of Vancouver One Water Watershed Characterization Report
showcases the need to prioritize work on integrated rainwater management
along the Fraser River. This includes the watersheds of Dunbar, Angus, Marpole,

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, June 23 and 24, 2021 24
Manitoba, South Hill, Fraserview, Vivian, and Champlain which have 8 combined
and 26 urban rainwater runoff outfalls that drain directly into the Fraser.
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/one-water-watershed-characterization.pdf;
12. On November 27, 2020, the Metro Vancouver Board passed a resolution to send
letters to federal and provincial agencies, including the Port, and First Nations to
assess their interest in participating in a task force. The purpose would be to
consider reinstating the Burrard Inlet Environmental Action Program (BIEAP) –
Fraser River Estuary Management Program (FREMP) Partnership, or establish
an equivalent multi-stakeholder partnership for coordinated environmental
management in the region including one for the Fraser River; and
13. In February 2021, Council approved the East Fraser Lands Official Development
Plan and Public Amenity Financial Plan and Strategy which defined park
corridors connecting new and existing communities to each other and to the
Fraser River. The plan includes primary pedestrian connections from West
Fraserlands to Burnaby as part of the Fraser River Greenway.
https://council.vancouver.ca/20210209/documents/rr1.pdf .
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back on the
creation of the Fraser River Inter Governmental Working Group to develop a Fraser
River Co-management Plan to put reconciliation in action, coordinate the numerous
existing plans, complete the North Arm extension of the Experience the Fraser Trail,
improve north-south community connections, and improve the overall stewardship &
ecological health of the Fraser River (Sto:lo) for generations to come;
FURTHER THAT invited representatives should include but are not be limited to, The
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm Musqeuem Indian Band, The Port of Vancouver, The Vancouver Park
Board, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations & Rural Development,
CP Rail, Metro Vancouver Regional Parks, TransLink, and community experts.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07449)
(Councillors Hardwick and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned on June 24, 2021, at 7:20 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 24, 2021
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday, June 24, 2021, at
7:20 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
David Yim, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, June 23, 2021 and Thursday, June 24, 2021
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Jericho Lands Planning Program Process Update and Consideration of Draft Guiding
Principles and Emerging Ideas to Guide Site Planning
2. 2021 Annual Inflationary Rate Adjustment to Development Contributions & Associated
DCL Amendment
4. Hastings Park PNE Master Plan Program: Amphitheatre Renewal
5. Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board Annual Report 2020
6. 333 Carrall Street Closure of Portions of Street and Lane for Heritage Building
Encroachments
a. Staff Report
b. Resolution
7. SRO Upgrade Grant to Atira Women’s Resource Society 1119 Horby St (Murray Hotel)
8. Joint Vancouver City Council Vancouver School Board Committee to Collaborate on
Capital Projects

Council
Minutes, June 24, 2021 2
9. Amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 to Allow Electric Kick Scooters
on Protected Bike Lanes and Minor Streets
10. Endorsing the Vote16BC Campaign to Lower the Voting Age to 16 across British
Columbia (Previously Motion B3)
11. Supporting Hotel Workers’ Right to Return to Their Jobs at Living Wages (Previously
Motion B4)
12. Pursuing Emission-Free Landscaping Equipment in the City of Vancouver (Previously
Motion B6)
13. Issuing an Official Apology from the City of Vancouver to the Italian Canadian
Community During Italian Heritage Month in 2022 (Previously Motion B8)
14. Vancouver Blueways Cleanup (Previously Motion B9)
15. Reconnecting to the Sto:lo (Fraser River) (Previously Motion B10)
Items 1 to 2 and 4 to 15
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities Services at its meeting of June 23 and 24, 2021, as contained in
items 1 to 2 and 4 to 15, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Hardwick and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact by-laws 1 to 2 as listed on the agenda for this meeting, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Hardwick and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Hardwick and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
Council adjourned on June 24, 2021, at 7:23 pm.
* * * * *