COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 22, 2021
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 22, 2021, at
9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial
Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – June 8, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of June 8, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Council (City Finance and Services) – June 9, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting of June 9, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 3
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Communications 1 and 2, Report 1, and Referral Reports 1 to 3,
and 5, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
PRESENTATIONS
1. Transportation Update
Paul Storer, Director of Transportation, provided a Transportation Update, including, travel
trends, mobility recovery response, climate emergency action plan, safety, active transportation
updates and transit updates.
Engineering Services staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council direct staff to review and report back on traffic patterns, sight lines, speed,
and collision history along Commercial Drive between East 12th and East 22nd
(including the Victoria diversion) in response to neighbourhood concerns regarding
excessive speed northbound and need for additional pedestrian crossings;
FURTHER THAT in reviewing this area, Council direct staff to consult with the
community and report back on the feasibility of a reduced speed posting (30km/hr) and
improved signage near Stratford Hall school, CEFA Early Learning Centre and Clark
Park.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07394)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council direct staff to engage residents in neighbourhoods to review and consider
increasing time limits associated to vehicle loading zones and drop off zones, especially
in areas serving people with disabilities and mobility issues and families with young
children, including but not limited to medical buildings and childcare centres.
withdrawn

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 4
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the amendment be stuck and replaced as follows:
THAT council direct staff consider increasing time limits associated to vehicle
loading zones and drop off zones, especially in areas serving people with
disabilities and mobility issues and families with young children, including but not
limited to medical buildings and childcare centres.
out of order
* * * * *
Prior to the amendment being seconded, Mayor Stewart ruled the amendment out of order as
per section 8.1 of the Procedure By-law, as a motion must be clear and concise.
* * * * *
Following the amendment not being put, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the motion above be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT council direct staff to consider increasing time limits associated to vehicle loading
zones and drop off zones, especially in areas serving people with disabilities and
mobility issues and families with young children, including but not limited to medical
buildings and childcare centres.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07409)
FINAL MOTIONS AS APPROVED
Note: Two separate motions were approved for the item.
First Motion Approved:
THAT Council direct staff to review and report back on traffic patterns, sight lines, speed,
and collision history along Commercial Drive between East 12th and East 22nd
(including the Victoria diversion) in response to neighbourhood concerns regarding
excessive speed northbound and need for additional pedestrian crossings;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 5
FURTHER THAT in reviewing this area, Council direct staff to consult with the
community and report back on the feasibility of a reduced speed posting (30km/hr) and
improved signage near Stratford Hall school, CEFA Early Learning Centre and Clark
Park.
Second Motion Approved:
THAT council direct staff to consider increasing time limits associated to vehicle loading
zones and drop off zones, especially in areas serving people with disabilities and
mobility issues and families with young children, including but not limited to medical
buildings and childcare centres.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. Towards a Quieter and Emission-Free Landscape Maintenance Equipment Future
in Vancouver (Previously Motion B.2)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, Council began to consider the motion below but due to
time constraints, did not complete the item. The motion was placed on the Council agenda of
June 22, 2021, as Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is committed to helping citizens enjoy a good quality of life
by regulating and enforcing property use, noise, and graffiti issues. The City
works to manage noise through land-use planning, bylaws and traffic
management;
2. Noise is part of urban life, but too much noise is disruptive and harmful to well-
being. The City’s Noise Control Bylaw defines how much noise is acceptable,
based on:
• Where you are
• Where the noise is coming from
• What is making the noise
• What time and day the noise is occurring
3. The City’s Noise Control Bylaw aims to balance noise from most activities in a
way that respects everyone's right to relative comfort, within reason. The bylaw
specifically regulates noise from:
• Carpet-cleaning equipment within vehicles
• Lawn mowers and weed eaters
• TVs, radios, stereos, amplifiers, and musical instruments
• Parties and gatherings
• People shouting
• Pressure washers

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 6
4. Historically, in 1997, growing concerns about noise and its effects on everyday
life in Vancouver led to the creation of the Urban Noise Task Force. This citizens
group, with the assistance of City staff and Councillors, made a series of
recommendations for improving Vancouver’s “soundscape” many of which have
been, or are being implemented;
5. The Report of the Urban Noise Task Force from April 1997 noted that “Lawn
mowers, leaf blowers, trimmers, edgers, mulchers, and other lawn and garden
equipment are a significant source of noise for many people” and that “Twenty-
five percent of the letters received by the Task Force commented about the noise
produced by these machines.” The report also noted that “Noise from motorized
lawn/garden equipment was the most frequently mentioned noise problem” and
thus the Task Force strongly suggested that the City move toward the use of
non-motorized gardening services and methods in its own operations;
6. Recommendation 40.1 from the 1997 Urban Noise Task Force report states that
“The City should, based on technological advances within the industry, require
that all leaf blowers maintain a maximum decibel level of 70 at 50 feet until
January 1998, when 65 decibels will be the maximum allowable; that they be run
at the lowest effective throttle setting and that between October 1 and April 30 of
each year the City establish hours of use….”;
7. The City’s website currently states that “Leaf blowers can be operated in
Vancouver, but not in the West End” (i.e., an area bounded by Stanley Park,
Burrard Street, West Georgia Street, and Beach Avenue. The City of Vancouver
defines a leaf blower as a “backpack-mounted or handheld machine used for
blowing or sucking up leaves, grass, or debris.” Leaf blowers may have vacuum
attachments. Vehicle-mounted leaf blowers are not included in the City’s
definition;
8. The City’s website states that “A manufacturer’s decal must be attached to the
leaf blower” to certify that it meets the "Category 1 – dB (A) ≤ 65" equipment
standard set out in ANSI B175.2 – 200, published by the Portable Power
Equipment Manufacturer’s Association. The decal includes the following text:
[The manufacturer's model number] and Maximum sound level 65 dB(A) and
Measured at 50 ft (15 m) Per ANSI B175.2 – 200;
9. Vancouver has declared a Climate Emergency and developed a plan that aims to
reduce carbon pollution by 50% by 2030;
10. In January 2019, the Vancouver Park Board unanimously carried a motion
(“Renewal Strategy for Landscape Equipment – Towards an Emission-Free
Reality”) which directed Park Board staff to work with unions and WorkSafeBC
“to develop a transition plan to replace and retrofit gas-powered landscape
maintenance equipment used for park maintenance with emission-free
equivalents or quasi-equivalents where possible.” The motion also directed that
“the transition plan include financial considerations, including purchase, usage,
maintenance and end-of-life replacement costs, as well as ways to
quantify/qualify non-financial benefits such as: carbon emission reduction;
disposal of refuse oil and other parts;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 7
11. A recent December 7, 2020 Memo from the Park Board General Manager served
to report back on the work being undertaken by Park Board staff in response to
motion approved by the Board in January 2019. It states that staff anticipate
transitioning all small landscaping equipment to zero emission alternatives over
the next four years. The Memo also notes several key findings from the 2019
pilot, as well as the fact the Park Board has been transitioning its gas-powered
equipment to low or no-emission equipment for many years as equipment
reaches end of life, and that electric options meeting performance and function
specifications are preferred for all equipment procurement in accordance with
Vancouver’s commitment to reducing its environmental emissions and fossil fuel
consumption;
12. Feedback received from the public by members of Council frequently cites the
issue of noise and emissions from gasoline-powered landscape maintenance
equipment, such as lawn mowers, trimmers, chain saws, and especially leaf
blowers. Members of the public often suggest that the use of gasoline-powered
equipment be prohibited in favour of non-emitting electric alternatives which are
also considered to be far quieter;
13. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the negative noise impacts from gasoline-
powered landscape maintenance equipment have been significantly heightened
for residents with so many people working from home and spending considerably
more time at home. Increasingly, Council and the City are receiving noise
complaints that point to the need to revisit noise reduction strategies with respect
to gas-powered landscape maintenance equipment and transition towards
replacement and/or retrofitting gas-powered landscape maintenance equipment
with quieter, emission-free equivalents or quasi-equivalents.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to report back with recommendations to
meet the goal to phase out and transition personal and commercial use of
gasoline-powered landscape maintenance equipment in the City of Vancouver by
2025, giving consideration to a timeframe that is workable for residents and
landscape maintenance service providers alike, and respecting the Development,
Buildings & Licensing (DBL) moratorium on new work, this work not begin before
January 2022.
B. THAT recommendations are informed by consultation with relevant stakeholders
such as but not limited to representative strata councils and the BC Landscape
and Nursery Association.
C. THAT phase out recommendations be sensitive to any increased costs that
transitioning would create for residents and the landscape maintenance industry,
and that a reasonable transition timeframe be considered before any potential
by-law changes would be implemented.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 8
D. THAT the report back identify (but not be limited to):
• any issues with respect to implementing a ban on gasoline-powered
landscape maintenance equipment;
• all relevant City by-laws and policies that currently impact upon noise and
emissions from gasoline-powered landscape maintenance equipment that
would require amendment;
• information related to the impact that gasoline-powered landscape
maintenance equipment can have on noise and local/regional air pollution
as well as implications for mental well-being, quality of life and human
health;
• information regarding harmful environmental effects of gasoline-powered
landscape maintenance equipment;
• information on availability and trends that would allow non-emitting
electric landscaping equipment to equal and/or exceed the performance
of gasoline-powered equipment.
not put
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, prior to Councillor Kirby-Yung introducing the motion,
Councillor Carr rose on a point of order under Section 8.7(d) of the Procedure By-law requesting
the Mayor’s ruling on the motion being out of order. Councillor Carr noted the proposed motion
conflicts with a previous motion passed by Council related to a moratorium on providing
additional work to the Development, Buildings and Licensing Department via member’s motions
and amendments.
As the meeting adjourned on June 8, 2021, prior to the Mayor ruling on the point of order, the
point of order was considered at the June 22, 2021, meeting. The Mayor ruled the motion out of
order as it conflicts with a previous motion that was passed, specifically the moratorium on
providing additional work to the Development, Buildings and Licensing Department.
* * * * *
Following the Mayor’s ruling, Councillor Kirby-Yung challenged the ruling of the Chair.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Chair’s ruling of Councillor Kirby-Yung’s motion as out of order be challenged.
LOST
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
* * * * *
Following the vote on the Challenge to the Chair, the motion was not put.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 9
2. Endorsing the Vote16BC Campaign to Lower the Voting Age to 16 across British
Columbia (Previously Motion B.3)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below. This motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as Unfinished
Business.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Youth have a strong interest in the future of local communities, and decisions
made at a local level stand to have a significant impact on whether they continue
to be able to call that community home, as well as the health and safety of that
community over their lifetime. Youth have the most at stake in political decisions
being made right now, and deserve a say in what lies ahead;
2. Empowering young people to participate in democratic processes fosters
ongoing and active civic participation. Studies show that if first time voters have
social and educational support — which are more likely to be available when you
live with parents/guardians and attend school — they are more likely to vote
again. New research also shows that younger voters create a “trickle up” effect,
where parents and other adults in their lives are more likely to vote when youth
do;
3. Many youth are on the front lines during the pandemic, and will bear the brunt of
economic, social and environmental consequences, from lost jobs to family
stress, mental health, unstable education, a housing crisis, and uncertain futures.
As fully participating members of society, they deserve to have a say in the
decisions made around BC's recovery and forever-changed post-pandemic
future;
4. In 2019, the Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) endorsed a resolution calling on
the province to revise the minimum voting age in local government elections to
16 years of age;
5. The campaign to lower the voting age to 16 has been endorsed by 20 non-
profits, unions, and labour councils, including BC Teachers Federation, BCGEU,
and Sustainabiliteens. It has also been endorsed at conventions of both the BC
NDP and the BC Green Party; and
6. Several jurisdictions worldwide, including Austria, Argentina, and Scotland, have
lowered the voting age to 16.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council formally endorses the Vote16BC campaign to
lower the voting age to 16 in British Columbia.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 10
B. THAT Council requests the Mayor to write a letter to the Premier and the Minister
of Municipal Affairs informing them of this endorsement.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion entitled “Endorsing the Vote16BC Campaign to Lower the Voting Age
to 16 across British Columbia” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from speakers, debate
and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Supporting Hotel Workers’ Right to Return to Their Jobs at Living Wages
(Previously Motion B.4)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below. The motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as Unfinished
Business.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. The COVID pandemic has exacerbated existing inequalities and its social,
health, and economic impacts are particularly devastating for women and
racialized communities;
2. The tourism and hospitality industries have been drastically impacted;
3. Of the 50,000 hotel workers in BC that were laid of in March 2020, the majority
are women and/or people of colour;
4. The duration of the pandemic means that recall rights require extension;
5. There are reports of hotels in British Columbia refusing to commit to bringing
workers back to their jobs when business returns;
6. UNITE HERE Local 40 launched a campaign called BC Unequal Women to draw
public attention to the devastating impact of the pandemic on racialized women in
the hospitality industry;
7. The City of Vancouver is committed to a COVID recovery plan that takes better
care of people, the environment, and the community than the systems we had
before the pandemic;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 11
8. Hotel workers and people who work in the tourism industry as valued and
valuable members of our community.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirms that people should not lose their livelihoods due to the
pandemic.
B. THAT Council requests the Mayor to write to the Ministers of Labour and Tourism
expressing Council’s support for the right for laid off workers to return to their
jobs when the pandemic eases.
C. THAT Council affirms its support for Local 40’s Unequal Women campaign to
return all workers, including racialized women, to their jobs as the tourism
business recovers.
D. THAT Council requests the Mayor to write to the Lower Mainland Local
Government Association and Union of BC Municipalities encouraging them to
host future conferences and events in venues that respect worker rights and pay
at least a living wage.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion entitled “Supporting Hotel Workers’ Right to Return to Their Jobs at
Living Wages” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12 pm and reconvened at 3:06 pm.
* * * * *
4. Safe Passing Distance for All Road Users (Previously Motion B.5)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below. The motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as Unfinished
Business.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 12
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
A. The Province of British Columbia prioritizes safety measures for vulnerable road
users including pedestrians and cyclists, and the Motor Vehicle Act of British
Columbia mandates that cyclists must ride on the right hand side of the road, and
not on sidewalks unless expressly permitted by local by-law. Faster motor
vehicles sharing roads with inherently slower cyclists often result in close passes,
accounting for almost one third of the threatening encounters experienced by
people on bicycle and almost fifty per cent of incidents in rural areas. Because
relatively few roads in B.C. have bike lanes or shoulders, and many do not even
have sidewalks, directing cyclists and pedestrians to share the road with high
speed motor vehicle traffic poses a potentially fatal risk and a resulting
disincentive for active transportation.
B. Jurisdictions across North America, including the provinces of Quebec, Ontario,
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Newfoundland and Labrador have all enacted
“safe passing distance” legislation designed to protect vulnerable road users by
educating and requiring motor vehicle operators to maintain a minimum safe
distance when passing more vulnerable road users. Establishing a clear and
reasonable distance for safe passing has created a better understanding and
expectation around safely sharing roads, in particular in areas that do not have
dedicated or separated cycling infrastructure.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT the following resolution be submitted as a 2021 UBCM Resolution, and titled:
“Safe Passing Distance for All Road Users”:
THAT the UBCM request the Province of British Columbia amends the Motor Vehicle Act
to better support safe active transportation and require drivers to pass people cycling
and walking by 1-1.5 m based on facility type and posted speed limits, and clarify the
obligation of all motorists to establish reasonable distance when passing a cyclist or a
pedestrian, as well as definitive guidance on an appropriate minimum distance when
doing so.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the motion to amended as follows:
• deleting the words “and require drivers to pass people cycling and walking by
1-1.5 m based on facility type and posted speed limits”; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 13
• inserting the words “by requiring drivers to provide 1 metre of space on roads
with posted speeds of 50 km/h or less, and 1.5 metres of space on roads with
posted speeds in excess of 50 km/h, when passing people cycling or walking;”,
between the words “transportation”, and “and”, to read as follows:
THAT the UBCM request the Province of British Columbia amends the Motor Vehicle Act
to better support safe active transportation by requiring drivers to provide 1 metre of
space on roads with posted speeds of 50 km/h or less, and 1.5 metres of space on
roads with posted speeds in excess of 50 km/h, when passing people cycling or walking;
and clarify the obligation of all motorists to establish reasonable distance when passing
a cyclist or a pedestrian, as well as definitive guidance on an appropriate minimum
distance when doing so.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07397)
The amendment having carried unanimously, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07398).
5. Pursuing Emission-Free Landscaping Equipment in the City of Vancouver
(Previously Motion B.6)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below. The motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as Unfinished
Business.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. The use of landscaping equipment powered by gasoline two-stroke engines,
including leaf-blowers, hedge trimmers, line trimmers, chain saws and pole saws,
contributes significantly to air pollution, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and
noise pollution in the City of Vancouver;
2. Gallon for gallon of gasoline used, the small gasoline engines found in lawn
mowers, leaf blowers, and other power equipment pollute at a higher rate than
other equipment and vehicles. One hour of operation of a commercial leaf blower
can emit as much pollution in the form of ROG (reactive organic gases) and NOx
(nitrogen oxides) as driving 1,100 miles (1,770 km) in a new passenger vehicle
(Source: 2021 California State Legislature Bill AB-1346 Air Pollution: small off-
road engines);
3. ROG and NOx significantly contribute to ozone and particulate pollution which
pose a significant risk to both human and environmental health and contribute to
the declining populations of insect species, including pollinator insects like
butterflies and bees;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 14
4. Metro Vancouver is seeking public input to June 15, 2021 on its 2021 Clean Air
Plan including reducing regional greenhouse gas emissions by 45% over 2010
levels by 2030 and reducing health-harming air contaminants - see
http://www.metrovancouver.org/services/air-quality/engagement/clean-air-
plan/Pages/default.aspx. Strategy 3.2 Reduce Non-Road Emissions and Support
Early Adoption of Zero Emission Non-Road Equipment does not currently include
landscaping equipment;
5. Equipment powered by two-stroke engines produce levels of noise varying from
75 to 110 decibels. Sounds above 85 decibels are deemed harmful by the
Government of B.C. Furthermore, two-stroke engines often produce noise in the
low-frequency range which travel further and penetrate deeper than noise at
higher frequency, hence creating wider-spread neighborhood disturbance and
greater health hazards to equipment users.
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/04/james-fallows-leaf-
blower-ban/583210/
https://www.healthlinkbc.ca/health-topics/tf4173
6. Recent advances in battery technology has resulted in the development of
competitive battery-powered landscaping equipment equivalent or quasi-
equivalent to most gas-powered landscaping equipment. The battery-powered
equipment produces much less noise and vibration, no direct emissions of GHGs
or health-harming air contaminants, and is often lighter than its gas-powered
counterpart. These technological advances are expected to continue;
7. Many political jurisdictions have banned or are considering banning or phasing
out gasoline two-stroke engines including Toronto, Oak Bay, Oakland, Berkley,
Los Angeles and the State of California;
8. In 2001 Vancouver City Council voted to ban gas-powered leaf blowers in the city
by 2004, however Noise Control Bylaw 6555 only bans the use of leaf blowers in
the West End and otherwise restricts the use of leaf blowers to certain times of
day and distancing from residences and restricts the allowable equipment to “low
noise” leaf blowers - see https://vancouver.ca/your-government/noise-control-
bylaw.aspx;
9. On January 14, 2019, the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation passed a
resolution titled ‘Renewal Strategy for Landscape Equipment – Towards an
Emission-Free Reality’ aimed at phasing out two-stroke engines from its
operational activities. By December 2020, 33% of all Park Board equipment was
‘zero-emission’. Full transition is expected to be completed by the end of 2024. A
U.B.C. study estimated that if the Park Board switched all of its 2-stroke engines
to electric, by year two it would save $300,000 to $450,000 per year;
10. In 2019 the Vancouver School Board also passed a motion to develop a
transition plan to replace gas-powered landscaping equipment with emission-free
alternatives;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 15
11. Vancouver has adopted plans to ban other environmentally egregious items,
such as plastic straws and plastic bags. https://vancouver.ca/news-calendar/city-
postpones-fee-on-single-use-cups-and-ban-on-plastic-shopping-bags-to-
2022.aspx;
12. On March 31, 2021 Council passed a motion initiating a moratorium on any new
member motions that would result in new work for the staff involved in issuing
development and building permits and business licenses until the end of 2021.
Because the work to research, consult on and develop a plan for emissions-free
landscaping equipment in the City of Vancouver heavily involves the
Development, Buildings and Licensing department, Council cannot direct staff to
develop such a plan until the moratorium has ended.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT City Council, in order to provide a helpful forward-looking signal to the
public, landscaping companies and other related businesses, affirm the goal of
pursuing emissions-free landscaping equipment in the City of Vancouver by
2025.
B. THAT City Council direct staff to provide input into Metro Vancouver’s draft 2021
Clean Air Plan (deadline for public input is June 15, 2021) urging Metro
Vancouver’s development of stringent emission regulations and requirements for
landscaping equipment
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion entitled “Pursuing Emission-Free Landscaping Equipment in the City of
Vancouver” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
6. Keeping HandyDART Accessible to People Living with Disabilities (Previously
Motion B7) – WITHDRAWN
7. Issuing an Official Apology from the City of Vancouver to the Italian Canadian
Community During Italian Heritage Month in 2022 (Previously Motion B.8)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below. The motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as Unfinished
Business.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 16
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
WHEREAS
1. The Italian Community has been a part of Vancouver since the 1800s and grew
through waves of Italian immigration to Canada. A substantial wave of
immigration was prompted by the Second World War, with many Italians fleeing
Italy to escape the fascist regime. Notably the Italian Canadian community in
Vancouver has ties to East Vancouver neighbourhoods including Grandview
Woodlands, Hastings Sunrise, and Strathcona;
2. On June 10, 1940, the Government of Canada, upon a unanimous resolution in
the House of Commons, declared war against Italy following Benito Mussolini’s
declaration of war against Great Britain and France;
3. Shortly after declaring war against Italy in 1940, the Canadian Federal
Government designated Italian nationals, and Italian Canadians naturalized after
1922, as ‘enemy aliens’. Over 600 Italian-Canadians, including 44 from the
Vancouver area were taken from their families and sent to internment camps.
Although they were never criminally charged, this result caused irreparable harm
and hardship to many families;
4. Of the approximately 4,500 Italians in Vancouver, 1,800 were designated as
“enemy aliens” and were required to file monthly reports with the RCMP
regarding their activities and whereabouts;
5. Under the War Measures Act, over 600 Italians across Canada, 44 of whom were
from the Vancouver area, were arrested by the RCMP and interned in camps
without being charged with any criminal activity;
6. On February 16, 1942, Vancouver City Council passed a motion imploring the
Federal Government “to remove all residents of Japanese racial origin and
enemy aliens to areas of Canada well-removed from the Pacific Coast and that
their removal be under such conditions as will provide them with the essentials of
a reasonable livelihood”;
7. The reference to “enemy aliens” in the February 16,1942, Council motion has
long been viewed by some as unjustly and unfairly directed at the Italian
community and contrary to the principles of fundamental human rights;
8. On April 28, 2010, Parliament passed Bill C-302, the Italian-Canadian
Recognition and Restitution Act, to recognize the injustice that was done to
persons of Italian origin through their “enemy alien” designation and internment
during the Second World War, and to provide for restitution and promote
education on Italian-Canadian history;
9. On March 21, 2011, Bill C-302, the Italian-Canadian Recognition and Restitution
Act, received Second Reading in the Senate and was referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and Technology;
10. On March 26, 2011, the Governor General dissolved the 40th Parliament, and

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 17
Bill C-302, the Italian-Canadian Recognition and Restitution Act, died on the
order paper;
11. On February 27, 2013, Vancouver City Council, in support of reconciliation with
Aboriginal peoples, voted unanimously to support the recommendation of
Reconciliation Canada to proclaim June 21, 2013 to June 20 2014, as the Year
of Reconciliation in Vancouver and to name Vancouver a City of Reconciliation;
12. On September 25, 2013, Vancouver City Council unanimously passed a motion
to apologize for the City of Vancouver’s role in the 1942 Internment of Japanese
Canadians, by formally apologizing for its complicity, inaction, and failure to
protect the city’s residents of Japanese descent, and pledged to do all that the
City can to ensure such injustices will not happen again to any of its residents
and to uphold the principles of human rights, justice and equality now and in the
future;
13. On May 27, 2014, Vancouver City Council voted unanimously to direct staff to
conduct research into the laws, regulations and policies of previous Councils that
discriminated against the people of Chinese descent in the City of Vancouver
and directed staff to report back with recommendations on steps and actions in
support of reconciliation, including a public acknowledgement and formal
apology;
14. In 2018, Vancouver City Council passed a motion to include Italian Heritage
Month in the City of Vancouver’s official celebrations and Observances;
15. On April 22, 2018, Vancouver City Council convened a special meeting in
Chinatown where a formal apology on behalf of the City of Vancouver was
delivered for past discrimination against people of Chinese descent;
16. Council approved funding in the 2020 budget for staff to work with the South
Asian community on historical discrimination, including consideration for an
apology;
17. For almost 40 years, The National Congress of Italians, The Order of Sons and
Daughters of Italy, and the National Federation of Canadian Italian Business
Professional Association have been working together and calling on the
Government of Canada to make a formal apology for the treatment of Italian
Canadians during the Second World War;
18. On May 27, 2021, in Parliament, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau formally
apologized to Italian Canadians. He said, “To the tens of thousands of innocent
Italian Canadians who were labelled enemy aliens, to the children and
grandchildren who have carried a past generation's shame and hurt and to their
community, a community that has given so much to our country, we are sorry.”.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 18
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council demonstrate its commitment to upholding the
principles of human rights, justice, and reconciliation by acknowledging and
issuing an official apology to the Italian-Canadian community for any injustice
and harm to persons of Italian origin or ethnicity that occurred as a result of the
actions of the City of Vancouver, including the reference to “enemy aliens” in the
Vancouver City Council motion of February 16, 1942;
FURTHER THAT Council further demonstrate this commitment by directing staff
to conduct research, in consultation with organizations representing the
Italian-Canadian community in Vancouver, including ‘Il Centro’ - The Italian
Cultural Centre, for a proclamation of Official Apology from the City of Vancouver
to be delivered during Italian Heritage Month in 2022, for any historical actions,
policies or public support of measures that contributed to discrimination of
Italian-Canadians because of their ancestry;
AND FURTHER THAT this official apology be posted on the City of Vancouver
website.
B. THAT Vancouver City Council request the Mayor to write a letter to the Prime
Minister on behalf of the City of Vancouver, in support of the federal
government’s apology to Italian Canadians;
FURTHER THAT this letter notify the federal government of this motion and the
commitment of Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver to right the
wrongs, harm and discrimination caused to Italian-Canadians because of their
ancestry.
C. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to work with The Italian Cultural Centre
- ‘Il Centro’ and the Public Art Committee to consider and possibly identify
opportunities for an installation of Public Art to commemorate the City of
Vancouver’s official apology to the Italian-Canadian community in Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council with information and any
recommendations as soon as possible.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the motion entitled “Issuing an Official Apology from the City of Vancouver to the
Italian Canadian Community During Italian Heritage Month in 2022” be referred to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in
order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 19
8. Vancouver Blueway Cleanup (Previously Motion B.9)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below. This motion has been placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as
Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is a Clean Shoreline Community supporting a
number of volunteer cleanups leading to 13,781 kgs of litter being removed since
2017;
2. The City of Vancouver’s Waterfront Initiative for major natural waterways
engages First Nations, industry, senior levels of government and adjacent
municipalities, and the community to focus on establishing and implementing a
series of Quick Starts including those focused on measures to make high use
waterways in Trout Lake and False Creek safely accessible by swimmers;
https://council.vancouver.ca/20170530/documents/motionb1.pdf
3. In 2019, Council approved the formalization of the False Creek to the Fraser
River Blueway which included outlining appropriate resourcing and coordination
of staff, including exploring the establishment of a Blueways Enhancement Fund;
https://council.vancouver.ca/20190514/documents/motionb3.pdf
4. In late 2021, the City of Vancouver will embark on an innovative planning and
design challenge, called The Sea2City Design Challenge, that will create a
vision to guide urban development and ecological revitalization in False
Creek and along the Fraser River Foreshore;
5. In 2021, the Vancouver Plastic Cleanup Coalition was formed to use state of
the art technology and citizen science to help cleanup Vancouver Blueways.
The coalition includes non-profit organizations and hosts with a currently
membership of the Peter Wall Charitable Foundation, Dentist on Demand,
Great Lakes Plastic Cleanup, Pollution Probe, Skookum Yacht Services,
Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, Sea Village Marina, Maritime
Market Marina Ltd., and the U of T Trash Team;
6. Vancouver Plastic Cleanup, Seabin Project (https://seabinproject.com) is a
three-phase Seabin installation plan, starting with three, and working up to a
total of 12 Seabins in the next three years. This initiative uses state of the art
technology to quickly remove plastics in Vancouver’s Blueways. The first
three Seabins are targeted to be installed on Granville Island and is currently
operating successfully in Victoria, Sidney and Sooke BC;
7. The Vancouver Plastic Program connects people to the water’s edge and
leverages that network of data to restore Vancouver’s Blueways. It would be
supported by the Community Based Water Monitoring Hub out of Granville
Island operated by the charity Swim Drink Fish;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 20
8. Indigenous Guardian Programs help Indigenous Nations honour the cultural
responsibility to care for lands and waters. Guardians are trained experts
who manage protected areas, restore animals and plants, test water quality
and monitor programs;
9. The City of Vancouver in partnership with the Park Board is advancing a
Seabin pilot through the City’s Aquatic Environments Action Plan, which
included the False Creek Water Quality Improvement Initiative, the City (via
REFM-Environmental Service) and the Park Board to work collaboratively to
install a Seabin in False Creek for the 2021 summer season.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council endorse the Vancouver Plastic
Cleanup, Seabin Project and ask staff to report back on the feasibility for the City of
Vancouver becoming a host location and coalition partner;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back on new initiatives to support
volunteer clean-ups and Indigenous Guardian Programs to Council in 2022, as part
of the annual Aquatic Environmental Action Plan report.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion entitled “Vancouver Blueway Cleanup” be referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in order to hear
from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
9. Reconnecting to the Sto:lo (Fraser River) (Previously Motion B.10)
At the Council meeting on June 8, 2021, due to time constraints, Council did not consider the
motion below. The motion was placed on the Council agenda of June 22, 2021, as Unfinished
Business.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. In 1988, Vancouver City Council adopted the Fraser River and Burrard Inlet
Waterfront Policy which outlines plans for a continuous waterfront walkway along
the North Fraser waterfront, and requires developers, where feasible, to
construct shoreline protection and a 25 foot (7.6 m) public access walkway along
the river;
2. In 1995, Vancouver City Council adopted a Greenways Plan which includes a
continuous trail from Burnaby to Pacific Spirit Park along the north shore of the
Fraser River (Sto:lo);

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 21
3. In 2003, the Eburne Lands Coordinating Group (ELCG) was formed in part to
protect, preserve and rehabilitate the foreshore of the Fraser River;
4. In 2005, the Fraser Basin Council (FBC) connected the four orders of
government (federal, provincial, local and First Nations) with private sector and
civil society interests to find common ground and develop “made-in-the-
community” solutions to regional and basin-wide sustainability challenges;
5. In 2013, City Council approved the Renfrew Ravine Master Plan which outlines
ways to improve water quality and access to the Ravine which is the headwaters
to a salmon tributary that connects to the Fraser River. The Plan identifies
multiple opportunities to improve the corridor.
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/Master-Plan-Renfrew-Ravine-Community-Parks-
09012013.pdf;
6. In 2014, Vancouver City Council endorsed Metro Vancouver’s Experience the
Fraser North Arm Addendum Concept Plan which aims to create a continuous
trail system along the Fraser River connecting the Salish Sea (Strait of Georgia)
from xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) to SHXW'OWHÁMÉL (Hope).
https://council.vancouver.ca/20140625/documents/ptec4.pdf;
7. In 2017, Province and The Musqueam Indian Band signed an MOU on land and
water authorizations and stewardship in the estuary and lower reaches of the
Fraser River including a framework that will guide land and water authorizations
through improved engagement between the Musqueam Indian Band and the
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations;
8. In 2018 Vancouver City Council approved the Cambie Corridor Public Realm
Plan which includes directions to work with the Vancouver Park Board to develop
the Fraser River Trail, and provide a waterfront destination within a riverfront park
setting, and improve wayfinding to the Fraser River Trail.
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/marpole-community-plan.pdf;
9. The 2019, Vancouver Park Board VanPlay Strategy outlines a greenway
connection from Little Mountain (Queen Elizabeth Park) to Big River (Fraser
River). https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/vanplay-strategic-bold-moves-report.pdf;
10. In 2019, Council voted to refresh the 1995 Vancouver Greenways Plan which
prioritizes strategies for collaborating with key groups and governments and
highlights the need to clarify the roles of the City of Vancouver, the Vancouver
Park Board, Metro Vancouver and First Nations in the service delivery of
greenways and the centralization, resourcing and coordination of staff.
https://council.vancouver.ca/20190402/documents/motionb3.pdf;
11. The City of Vancouver One Water Watershed Characterization Report
showcases the need to prioritize work on integrated rainwater management
along the Fraser River. This includes the watersheds of Dunbar, Angus, Marpole,
Manitoba, South Hill, Fraserview, Vivian, and Champlain which have 8 combined
and 26 urban rainwater runoff outfalls that drain directly into the Fraser.
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/one-water-watershed-characterization.pdf;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 22
12. On November 27, 2020, the Metro Vancouver Board passed a resolution to send
letters to federal and provincial agencies, including the Port, and First Nations to
assess their interest in participating in a task force. The purpose would be to
consider reinstating the Burrard Inlet Environmental Action Program (BIEAP) –
Fraser River Estuary Management Program (FREMP) Partnership, or establish
an equivalent multi-stakeholder partnership for coordinated environmental
management in the region including one for the Fraser River;
13. In February 2021, Council approved the East Fraser Lands Official Development
Plan and Public Amenity Financial Plan and Strategy which defined park
corridors connecting new and existing communities to each other and to the
Fraser River. The plan includes primary pedestrian connections from West
Fraserlands to Burnaby as part of the Fraser River Greenway.
https://council.vancouver.ca/20210209/documents/rr1.pdf.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back on the
creation of the Fraser River Inter Governmental Working Group to develop a Fraser
River Co-management Plan to put reconciliation in action, coordinate the numerous
existing plans, complete the North Arm extension of the Experience the Fraser Trail,
improve north-south community connections, and improve the overall stewardship &
ecological health of the Fraser River (Sto:lo) for generations to come;
FURTHER THAT invited representatives should include but are not be limited to, The
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm Musqeuem Indian Band, The Port of Vancouver, The Vancouver Park
Board, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations & Rural Development,
CP Rail, Metro Vancouver Regional Parks, TransLink, and community experts.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the motion entitled “Reconnecting to the Sto:lo (Fraser River)” be referred to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 23, 2021, in
order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
10. CD-1 Rezoning: 3609-3687 Arbutus Street
On June 17, 2021, Council held a Public Hearing on the above-noted matter, and following the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments, referred questions of staff, debate and
decision to the Council meeting to be held on June 22, 2021, as Unfinished Business.
Councillor Dominato was absent for a portion of the Public Hearing and advised she reviewed
the proceedings of the meeting she missed and would therefore be voting on the application.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 23
Councillors De Genova and Hardwick were absent for all or a portion of this item at the Public
Hearing and advised they had not reviewed the proceedings they missed and would not be
voting on the application.
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
A. THAT the application, PCI Developments on behalf of PCI Arbutus Ridge
Ventures Holdings Corp. Inc. No. 1241096, the registered owner, to rezone
3609-3687 Arbutus Street [PID 010-172-254; Lot 9 Block 532 District Lot 526
Plan 4998; PID 011-259-361 Lot 10 Block 532 District Lot 526 Plan 4998; PID
011-259-388 Lot 11 Block 532 District Lot 526 Plan 4998; PID 011-259-400 Lot
12 Block 532 District Lot 526 Plan 4998; and PID 011-259-418 Lot 13 Block 532
District Lot 526 Plan 4998]; from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR)
from 0.70 to 2.53 and the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 24.7 m
(80.8 ft.), measured to the top of parapet on the rooftop amenity floor, to permit
the development of a six-storey building under the Affordable Housing Choices
Interim Rezoning Policy containing a total of 116 secured market rental housing
units, of which 20% of the residential floor area is to be assigned to below-market
housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report dated
May 4, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3609-3687 Arbutus Street”, be approved
in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared in plans by BHA Architecture received
April 30, 2020, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of development;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval amendments to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report
dated May 4, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3609-3687 Arbutus Street”.
C. THAT, if after Public Hearing Council approves in principle this rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in Appendix B of the Referral Report dated
May 4, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 3609-3687 Arbutus Street”, the Director of
Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement
By-law for enactment, after the Housing Agreement has been agreed to and
signed by the applicant and its mortgagee(s) and prior to enactment of the CD-1
By-law contemplated by the above-noted report.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 24
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07399)
(Councillors De Genova and Hardwick ineligible for the vote)
COMMUNICATIONS
1. Change to Deputy Mayor Roster – August 2021
THAT Councillor Fry be named in place of Councillor Dominato as the Deputy Mayor for
August 2021.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07410)
2. Changes to 2021 Committee Meetings Schedule
THAT the following additional Auditor General Recruitment Committee meetings be
added:
• Monday, June 28, 2021, at 3:30 pm; and
• Monday, July 26, 2021, at 1 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07418)
REPORTS
1. Closure and Sale of a Portion of Road Adjacent to 2929 West 29th Avenue
May 7, 2021
THAT Council close, stop-up and convey to the abutting owner of 2929 West 29th
Avenue that approximately 231 square foot portion of road legally described as [PID:
013-193-139] The South 7 Feet of Lot 67 Block 70 District Lot 2027 Plan 3066
(hereinafter, the “Road Portion”), the same as generally shown hatched on the plan
attached as Appendix “A” of the Report dated May 7, 2021, entitled “Closure and Sale of
a Portion of Road Adjacent to 2929 West 29th Avenue”, subject to the terms and
conditions as noted in Appendix “B” of the same report;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 25
FURTHER THAT the sale proceeds of $85,000 be credited to the Property Endowment
Fund.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07412)
2. Contract Award for the Provision of Parking Meter Equipment
April 6, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate a contract for the provision of
parking meter equipment with Precise ParkLink Inc. for a term of five (5) years,
with the option to extend for four (4) additional one (1) year terms, for an
estimated contract value of approximately $10,000,000 plus applicable taxes
over the initial five-year term, which will be funded through the City’s capital and
operating budgets.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and the General
Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of the City
the contract contemplated in A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until the contract is executed by the authorized signatories of
the City as set out in A and B.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Report dated April 6, 2021, entitled “Contract Award for the Provision of
Parking Meter Equipment” be referred to staff to enable inclusion on a future In Camera
agenda in order to provide the opportunity for Council to consider questions and matters
appropriately dealt with in that forum.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07400)
3. Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan Implementation Grant Allocation – 2021
June 9, 2021
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff, along with the City Manager, responded to
questions.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 26
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council allow for a second round of questions of staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT Council approve the matching grant allocation of $341,000 to Downtown
Eastside (DTES) non-profit organizations (as detailed in Appendix A of the
Report dated June 9, 2021, entitled “Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan
Implementation Grant Allocation – 2021”) to strategically advance the social,
economic and environmental objectives of the approved DTES Plan, with funds
from the Multi-Year Capital Project Budget of the 2021 DTES Capital Grant
Program and managed within the approved Annual Capital Expenditure Budget.
B. THAT Council approve $145,000 in strategic grant allocations to support cultural
equity and women’s safety initiatives in the following amounts, with funds from
the Multi-Year Capital Project Budget of the 2021 DTES Capital Grant Program
and managed within the approved Annual Capital Expenditure Budget:
i. $100,000 for the Parks and Recreation Project Team planning,
consultation, ideation, design and cultural translation services to achieve
the cultural equity objectives for Chinatown in the implementation of the
North East False Creek (NEFC) Plan;
ii. $20,000 to the Overdose Prevention Society (OPS) for community
outreach and de-escalation supports.
iii. $25,000 to the Community Impact Real Estate Society (CIRES) for
initiatives for women’s safety that could include community stewardship,
partnerships and outreach, with funds to be administered by CIRES and
directed towards a priority initiative based on the direction of the
Managing Director, Social Policy & Projects and in collaboration with
community serving partners.
C. THAT Council approve the reallocation of a $50,000 grant from the Vancouver
Economic Commission (VEC) to the Community Impact Real Estate Society
(CIRES) to continue with the implementation of vacant space activation in the
Downtown Eastside as a component of the Special Enterprise Pilot Program that
was originally allocated to VEC in partnership with CIRES October 21, 2020
(RTS 13784).

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 27
D. THAT Council approve a $40,000 grant to RainCity Housing and Support Society
to implement a pilot project for self-care for peer witness workers, and a $21,000
to Vancouver Aboriginal Policing Centre to deliver three Indigenous Tools for
Living training sessions on trauma tools for frontline workers, with the source of
funding being funds that the City of Vancouver received from the Province of
British Columbia to fund Community Action Team projects.
E. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization listed in Appendix A of the Report dated June 9, 2021, entitled
“Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan Implementation Grant Allocation – 2021”, that
is not otherwise a registered charity with Canada Revenue Agency to be
contributing to the culture, beautification, health, or welfare of Vancouver.
F. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design, and Sustainability (GM
of PDS) (or their designate) be authorized to negotiate and execute agreements
to disburse the grants described in this report on the terms and conditions
generally set out below and on such other terms and conditions as are
satisfactory to the GM of PDS and the Director of Legal Services.
G. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by the approval of A to D
above unless and until the applicable grant agreement or letter of agreement is
approved by the City in accordance with F above and executed and delivered by
both the grant recipient and General Manager of Planning, Urban Design, and
Sustainability (GM of PDS) (or their designate).
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07401)
REFERRAL REPORTS
1. CD-1 Rezoning: 546 West 13th Avenue
June 11, 2021
A. THAT the application by GBL Architects Inc., on behalf of Soroptimist
International of Vancouver, BC, the registered owner, to rezone 546 West 13th
Avenue [PID: 011-143-142 , Lot A of Lot 5 Block 440 District Lot 526 Plan 5484;
PID: 011-143-151, Lot A of Lot 6 Block 440 District Lot 526 Plan 5484; PID: 011-
143-185, Lot A of Lot 7 Block 440 District Lot 526 Plan 5484 ] from RM-3
(Multiple-Dwelling Residential) to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District,
to increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 1.11 to 6.05 and building height from
36.6 m (120.0 ft.) to 40.0 m (131.2 ft.) to allow construction of a 13-storey social
housing building with 135 units, be referred to Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by GBL Architects, received December 1st, 2020;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated June 11, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 546 West
13th Avenue”; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 28
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle, including
approval in principle of the form of development, subject to the Conditions
of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report
dated June 11, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 546 West 13th Avenue”, the
Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject
to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director
of Legal Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07415)
2. CD-1 Rezoning: 2929 Commercial Drive
June 8, 2021
A. THAT the application by DYS Architecture, on behalf of the Vancouver
Elementary School Teachers’ Association and the Vancouver Secondary
Teachers’ Association, the registered owners of the lands located at 2929
Commercial Drive [PID 005-402-069; Lot 2 Block 170 District Lot 264A Plan
14017] to rezone the lands from C-2C1 (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to limit the floor space ratio (FSR) from
3.00 down to 2.67, and increase the building height from 13.8 m (45.2 ft.) to
19.25 m (63.2 ft.) to permit the development of a five-storey mixed-use building
with a rooftop amenity floor, containing 27 social housing units, be referred to
Public Hearing, together with:

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 29
(i) plans prepared by DYS Architecture, received November 23, 2020;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as set out in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated June 8, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2929
Commercial Drive”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle, including
approval in principle of the form of development, subject to the Conditions
of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the draft
CD-1 By-law, generally as set out in Appendix A of the above-noted report, for
consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated June 8, 2021,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2929 Commercial Drive”, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as
may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated June 8,
2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2929 Commercial Drive”, be referred to the same
public hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the Public Hearing.
D. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended to include this CD-1 in Schedule B, generally as set out in Appendix C
of the Referral Report dated June 8, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2929
Commercial Drive”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By law.
E. TH‑AT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property and any

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 30
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07416)
3. Miscellaneous Amendments Concerning Various CD-1 By-laws
June 8, 2021
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make an application to:
(i) amend CD-1 (312) By-law No. 7200 for 510 Nicola Street and
1506-1590 Coal Harbour Quay to correct an inconsistency in the commercial
land use provisions for the Coal Harbour waterfront, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Referral Report dated June 8, 2021, entitled “Miscellaneous
Amendments Concerning Various CD-1 By-laws”;
(ii) amend CD-1 (590) By-law No. 11110 for 4055 Cambie Street (formerly
4099 Cambie Street) to permit a wider range of commercial uses, creating
consistency with more recently approved and comparable CD-1 by-laws,
generally as presented in Appendix B of the above-noted report; and
(iii) amend CD-1 (745) By-law No. 12726 for 686-688 East 22nd Avenue,
3811-3891 Fraser Street and 679 East 23rd Avenue to correct map labelling,
generally as presented in Appendix C of the above noted report;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-laws, generally in accordance with the respective appendices,
for consideration at Public Hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07417)
4. CD-1 Rezoning: 1850 Main Street
May 25, 2021
Theresa O'Donnell, General Manager of Planning, Urban Design & Sustainability, provided a
presentation and responded to questions.
At this point in the proceedings, the Mayor advised that section13.3 of the Procedure By-law
notes that a request by a member of the public to speak to a referral report is generally not in
order, except that if a referral report recommends that a matter not be referred to public hearing,
the applicant may speak to that recommendation.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 31
Council heard from the applicant, Hani Lammam, Executive Vice President, Cressey
Development Group, who was opposed to the recommendation, and also responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the application by Francl Architecture, on behalf of Cressey Main Holdings Ltd., to
rezone the property located at 1850 Main Street [PID: 030-608-031, Lot 1 Block 15
District Lot 200A Group 1 New Westminster District Plan EPP85971] from IC-2
(Industrial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 3.00 to 5.02 and building height from 18.3 m (60 ft.) to 32.6 m
(107 ft.) to permit the development of an 11-storey mixed-use building consisting of
commercial retail and 130 secured for-profit affordable rental housing units, not be
referred to Public Hearing because the applicant has made no offer of a Community
Amenity Contribution (CAC) or of any material public benefits in respect to the rezoning
application, notwithstanding the increased development rights associated with the
proposed application.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07402)
5. 2021 Annual Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Density Bonus Contributions
June 7, 2021
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make application to implement 2021 inflationary rate adjustments for density bonus
contributions by amending Schedule F of the Zoning and Development By-law to be
effective September 30, 2021, as shown in Appendix A of the Referral Report date
June 7, 2021, entitled “2021 Annual Inflationary Rate Adjustments to Density Bonus
Contributions”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a public hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted report,
for consideration at the public hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07420)
BY-LAWS
At the beginning of the item, Councillor Wiebe rose to declare a conflict of interest on By-laws 8
and 16 due to his interest in the improvement areas.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 32
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 43, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 48, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enact the by law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 39, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED
(Councillors Fry, Hardwick and Wiebe opposed)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 47, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 38 inclusive, 40 to 42
inclusive, and 44 to 46 inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal
the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 33
1. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Cambie Village Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13010)
2. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Chinatown Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13011)
3. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Collingwood Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13012)
4. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Commercial Drive Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13013)
5. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Downtown Vancouver Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13014)
6. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Dunbar Village Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13015)
7. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Fraser Street Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13016)
8. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Gastown Business Improvement
Area (By-law No. 13017)
(Councillor Wiebe ineligible for the vote due to conflict of interest)
9. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Hastings Crossing Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13018)
10. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Hastings North Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13019)
11. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Hastings North Expansion
Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 13020)
12. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Hastings North Expansion #2
Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 13021)
13. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Kerrisdale Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13022)
14. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Kitsilano 4th Avenue Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13023)
15. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Marpole Business Improvement
Area (By-law No. 13024)
16. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Mount Pleasant Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13025)
(Councillor Wiebe ineligible for the vote due to conflict of interest)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 34
17. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Point Grey Village Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13026)
18. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Robson Street Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13027)
19. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the South Granville Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13028)
20. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Strathcona Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13029)
21. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Victoria Drive Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13030)
22. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the West Broadway Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 13031)
23. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the West End Business Improvement
Area (By-law No. 13032)
24. A By-law to levy rates on qualifying real property in the Yaletown Business Improvement
Area (By-law No. 13033)
25. A By-law to contract a debt by the issue and sale of Debentures in the aggregate
principal amount of $1,410.86, for certain local improvement lane lighting projects, and
for imposing an annual special rate on real property specially benefited by such local
improvements (By-law No. 13034)
26. A By-law to contract a debt by the issue and sale of Debentures in the aggregate
principal amount of $33,425.53, for a certain local improvement street work project, and
for imposing an annual special rate on real property specially benefited by such local
improvements (By-law No. 13035)
27. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8AN (1008 West 47th Avenue and 6335-6363 Oak Street) (By-law No.
13036)
(Councillor Fry ineligible for the vote)
28. A By-law to authorize the amendment of a Housing Agreement Authorized by By-law
No. 12399 (3070 Kingsway) (By-law No. 13037)
29. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (reclassification of 375 North Kootenay
Street) (By-law No. 13038)
30. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (420 Hawks Avenue) (By-law No.
13039)
31. A By-law to amend the Parking By-law No. 6059 (420 Hawks Avenue) (By-law No.
13040)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 35
32. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No.11879 (1506 West 68th Avenue and 8405-8465
Granville Street) (By-law No. 13041)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
33. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (1008 West 52nd Avenue) (By-law No.
13042)
34. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (1920 Southwest Marine Drive) (By-law
No. 13043)
35. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (5190-5226 Cambie Street) (By-law No.
13044)
36. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (976 West 52nd Avenue and
6822-6868 Oak Street) (By-law No. 13045)
37. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (643-683 West 31st Avenue) (By-law
No. 13046)
38. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (6250-6410 Oak Street) (By-law No.
13047)
39. A By-law to amend the Protection of Trees By-law regarding the size of trees not
requiring a permit for removal (By-law No. 13048)
40. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2543-2583 Renfrew Street and 2895 East
10th Street (By-law No. 13049)
41. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2603-2655 Renfrew Street (By-law No.
13050)
42. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 835-837 East Hastings Street (By-law No.
13051)
43. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1111-1123 Kingsway (By-law No. 13052)
44. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (404-434 West 23rd Avenue) (By-law
No. 13053)
45. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (930 West 49th Avenue and
6525 Fremlin Street) (By-law No. 13054)
46. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (168 West 44th Avenue) (By-law No.
13055)
47. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (582-588 West King Edward Avenue)
(By-law No. 13056)
48. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 (1956-1990 Stainsbury Avenue)
(By-law No. 13057)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 36
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Resolution: Closure and Sale of a Portion of Road Adjacent to 2929 West 29th
Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is the owner of all the streets and lanes lying within the
limits of the City of Vancouver;
2. The owner of [PID: 013-190-776] Lot 67, Except the South 7 Feet, Block 70
District Lot 2027 Plan 3066 Group 1 New Westminster District (“Lot 67”) have
made application to purchase a 7 foot wide portion of West 29th Avenue abutting
Lot 67;
3. The subject 7 foot portion of road to be closed, stopped-up and conveyed to the
owners of abutting Lot 67 is legally described as [PID: 013-193-139] The South 7
Feet of Lot 67 Block 70 District Lot 2027 Plan 3066 Group 1 New Westminster
District (“The South 7 Feet of Lot 67”);
4. The South 7 Feet of Lot 67 was established as road by document filed
BJ318736, deposited in the Land Title Office on October 20, 1995;
5. The said portion of road to be closed is no longer required for municipal
purposes;
6. The South 7 Feet of Lot 67 to be closed will be conveyed to the owner of Lot 67
and consolidated with Lot 67 to form one new parcel.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT [PID: 013-193-139] The South 7 Feet of Lot 67
Block 70 District Lot 2027 Plan 3066 Group 1 New Westminster District established as
road by document filed BJ318736 be closed, stopped-up and conveyed to the owner of
abutting [PID: 013-190-776] Lot 67, Except the South 7 Feet, Now road, Block 70 District
Lot 2027 Plan 3066 Group 1 New Westminster District subject to the said portion of
closed road being consolidated with the said Lot 67 to create a single parcel, to the
satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
B. Council Members’ Motions
None.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 37
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Towards a Quieter and Emission-Free Landscape Maintenance Equipment Future
in Vancouver
Councillor Kirby-Yung submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of the first Council meeting in
2022, as a Council Members’ Motion.
2. Response Strategy for Vulnerable Populations in Extreme Weather Conditions
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of July 6, 2021, as a Council Members’
Motion.
3. Keeping the Public in the Information Loop
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of July 6, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
4. Prioritizing the Night Economy Strategy as Part of the City’s Restart Plans
Councillor Dominato submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of July 6, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
5. Keys to Housing Affordability
Councillor Wiebe submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of July 6, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
6. Toward Reconciliation: Renaming Trutch Street
Mayor Stewart submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of July 6, 2021, as a Council Members’
Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Request for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Mayor Stewart be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business from meetings
on June 23, 2021, from 3 pm to 10 pm;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 38
FURTHER THAT Councillor Carr be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from meetings on June 24, 2021, from 3 pm to 10 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Administering Vancouver’s COVID-19 State of Emergency By-law
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. On March 18, 2020, the Province of British Columbia declared a Provincial State
of Emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic;
2. On March 19, 2020, Vancouver City Council voted to declare a state of
emergency in the City of Vancouver in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and
passed by-law No. 12661 “A By-law to declare a State of Emergency in
Vancouver” to put declaration this into effect;
3. Vancouver City Council wishes to avoid any confusion as to which State of
Emergency is in effect in the City of Vancouver as we address the COVID-19
pandemic.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to
bring forward for enactment a by-law to repeal By-law No. 12661, “A By-law to declare a
State of Emergency in Vancouver”, at the first regular Council meeting that comes after
the Provincial State of Emergency has been lifted.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07408)
3. British Columbia Utilities Commission Regulatory Regime and Inquiry into the
Regulation of Municipal Energy Utilities
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS the British Columbia Utilities Commission (BCUC) - grounded in
20th-Century needs and priorities, with its core function as a traditional “economic
regulator” enforcing the “regulatory compact” (balancing services, rates and investor
returns) -established an inquiry, by Order G-177-19, dated August 1, 2019, to examine
the regulation of energy utilities affiliated with municipalities and regional districts
(including exploring the regulatory status of different ownership structures and
operational arrangements and the current municipal exclusion under the Utilities
Commission Act);
AND WHEREAS in the event an outcome of the inquiry is BCUC oversight of municipal
and regional energy utilities, this may have adverse impacts that do not serve the public
interest including (1) duplication of current responsibilities that elected officials already

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 39
have over municipal or regional district energy utilities; (2) adding unnecessary financial
and regulatory burden, and regulatory risk; and (3) limiting the ability of municipal or
regional district energy utilities to be flexible in how they respond to local needs or
support the achievement of public policy goals – such as municipal strategies to mitigate
the climate crisis, or a just transition of our carbon-based economy into one that is
sustainable.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following resolution be submitted as a 2021
UBCM resolution and titled “British Columbia Utilities Commission Regulatory Regime
and Inquiry into the Regulation of Municipal Energy Utilities”:
THAT UBCM ask the provincial government to:
(a) re-design the regulatory regime for British Columbia’s energy sector, to provide a
comprehensive, 21st-Century framework that is grounded in today’s urgent priorities and
harmonizes fully with the priorities of our communities and their municipal
representatives, and
(b) maintain or expand the current municipal utility exemption and autonomy to pursue
local solutions to local and societal needs, and to enhance the benefits they bring to our
communities.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07413)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Extreme Heat in the City
Councillor Kirby-Yung enquired about activating cooling centres when the city experiences
extreme heat conditions, and also asked about pop-up spray parks with Fire and Rescue
Services. The City Manager provided information on the City’s Extreme Heat Plan.
2. Additional Garbage and Recycling Pick-up
Councillor Kirby-Yung enquired about additional garbage and recycling pick-up in popular
outdoor locations in the city. The City Manager noted an update would be coming to Council
and agreed to follow-up with the timing of the update.
3. Past Motion: “Decriminalizing Poverty and Supporting Community Led Safety
Initiatives”
* * * * *
During the enquiry, Councillor De Genova declared conflict of interest on this matter as she had
previously declared conflict of interest when the motion was originally being considered. She left
the meeting at 6:33 pm and returned at the completion of the enquiry.
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 22, 2021 40
Councillor Swanson enquired about the City’s response to a recent email Council received
regarding twenty-six groups and two individuals who will not be involved in the City’s approach
in next steps regarding the past motion entitled “Decriminalizing Poverty and Supporting
Community Led Safety Initiatives”. The City Manager noted the City’s approach previously
agreed upon is not feasible, and staff are looking at alternatives.
4. Previous Motion – Supporting Gender Equity and Diversity in Vancouver City
Council
Councillor De Genova inquired about the status of the past motion entitled “Supporting Gender
Equity and Diversity in Vancouver City Council”. The City Manager agreed to follow-up.
5. Navigation Centre Site
Councillor Dominato enquired if a site for the Navigation Centre, a centre to help people who
are experiencing long-term homelessness and require supports, had been identified. The City
Manager noted progress had been made but was unable to confirm specifics at this time.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 6:41 pm.
* * * * *