REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JUNE 9, 2021
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, June 9, 2021, at 9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Order of the
Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency
Program Act, updated Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart* - Leave of Absence – Civic Business,
3 pm to 10 pm
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung - Leave of Absence – Civic
Business, 9 am to 1 pm
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Lesley Matthews, Chief, External Relations and Protocol
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 09, 2021 2
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT – The tragic death of Muslim family, Salman Afzaal, Madiha
Salman, Yumna Afzaal and Talat Afzaal, in London, Ontario
The Chair, on behalf of Council, acknowledged the outrage and heartbreak felt upon hearing of
the targeting and killing of a Muslim family in London, Ontario, this week, as the tragic result of a
hate-motivated attack. The Chair asked Council and City staff to join in a moment of silence to
remember Salman Afzaal, Mediha Salman, Yumna Afzaal, and Talat Afzaal, and to keep their
surviving 9 year old son, Fayez Afzaal, in our hearts as we confirm our commitment to fighting
Islamophobia and all forms of race-based hate and hate crimes in our City and in our country.
1. 2021 Homelessness Action Week and Supportive Housing Grants
May 11, 2021
The Committee heard from one speaker with other concerns to the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the Homelessness Action Week (HAW) grants in the
individual amounts, as outlined in Appendix A and Appendix B of the Report
dated May 11, 2021, entitled “2021 Homelessness Action Week and Supportive
Housing Grants”, to 15 organizations ($66,052 in aggregate as outlined in Table
1). The grants will create awareness and engage residents in solutions to
homelessness and support individuals experiencing homelessness or living in
supportive housing, Source of funds to be 2021 Arts, Culture and Community
Services Street Homelessness Operating Budget ($36,052), and the 2021
Capital budget for the Supportive Housing Grant Program ($30,000).
B. THAT all grants be subject to each approved recipient organization signing and
returning a grant approval letter to the City agreeing in writing to its terms.
C. THAT grant approval letters be on the terms generally outlined in the Report
dated May 11, 2021, entitled “2021 Homelessness Action Week and Supportive
Housing Grants”, and otherwise satisfactory to the General Manager Arts,
Culture and Community services and the Director of Legal Services.
D. THAT, the General Manager Arts, Culture and Community Services, be
authorized to execute all grant approval letters on behalf of the City of
Vancouver.
E. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND WITH A AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 07364)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 09, 2021 3
2. Transfer of Parks Development Cost Levies (DCL) to the Property Endowment
Fund for the Burrard Slopes Park Expansion, Designation of Permanent Park and
Approval of a Capital Budget for Deconstruction
March 26, 2021
Paul Mochrie, City Manager, along with staff from Parks and Recreation, Real Estate Services,
Legal Services, and Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, responded to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council is allowed an additional round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the transfer of $41,150,000 from the Park Board’s
approved 2021 Capital Budget for Park Land Acquisitions to the Property
Endowment Fund (PEF) for 0.46 hectares of land located at 1630-1670 West 5th
Avenue (the “PEF Properties”), for the expansion of the Burrard Slopes Park
subject to other terms and conditions described in the Report dated
March 26, 2021, entitled “Transfer of Parks Development Cost Levies (DCL) to
the Property Endowment Fund for the Burrard Slopes Park Expansion,
Designation of Permanent Park and Approval of a Capital Budget for
Deconstruction”. Source of funds $39,027,084 City-wide Development Cost
Levies (DCL) for Parks, $2,122,916 Area Specific reserve balance for Burrard
Slopes DCL district.
B. THAT, subject to A above being approved, Council designate the properties in
Appendix 1 of the Report dated March 26, 2021, entitled “Transfer of Parks
Development Cost Levies (DCL) to the Property Endowment Fund for the
Burrard Slopes Park Expansion, Designation of Permanent Park and Approval of
a Capital Budget for Deconstruction”, (the “Subject Lands”) as Permanent Public
Park in accordance with Section 488(5)(a) of the Vancouver Charter to be under
the exclusive possession of, and exclusive jurisdiction and control of the
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation (“Park Board”).
C. THAT, subject to A and B above being approved, Council approve a Capital
Budget of $1,600,000 for the deconstruction of the buildings on the Subject
Lands, based on estimated costs and subject to further investigation of existing
conditions. Should the cost estimate change, a request for a budget adjustment
would be brought to Council at that time. Source of funding for the building
deconstruction is the Park Boards approved 2021 Capital Budget for Park Land

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 09, 2021 4
Acquisitions (City-wide Development Cost Levies (DCL) for Parks) and managed
within the Park Board Annual Capital Expenditure Budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07365)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
3. Internal Development Application and Permitting Modernization Task Force – First
Bi-Monthly Update
June 1, 2021
At the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, Council received a presentation, asked one round of
questions and heard from all registered speakers. Due to time constraints, additional questions,
debate and decision, on this report were referred to the June 9, 2021, Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting.
Paul Mochrie, City Manager, along with staff from Development, Building and Licensing,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and Legal Services, responded to questions.
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council suspend the Procedure By-law in order to allow an additional round of
questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council adopt the resolution, attached as Appendix C of the Report dated
June 1, 2021, entitled “Internal Development Application and Permitting
Modernization Task Force – First Bi-Monthly Update”, not to enforce certain
design guidelines that have been developed for one and two family dwellings
seeking a development permit in specific neighbourhoods (RS-3 and RS-3A, RS-
5, RT-3, RT-6, RT-7, RT-8, RT-9 and RT-10 Zoning Districts) to enable faster
processing of residential development permit applications by reducing the
number of conditions and reviews associated with them;
FURTHER THAT the resolution apply for a period of 12 months as part of a pilot
project.
B. THAT Council adopt the resolution, attached as Appendix D of the Report dated
June 1, 2021, entitled “Internal Development Application and Permitting

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 09, 2021 5
Modernization Task Force – First Bi-Monthly Update”, not to enforce specific
sections of the Protection of Trees By-law to enable faster processing of
development permit applications and reduce further growth of backlogs;
FURTHER THAT the resolution apply for a period of 12 months as part of a pilot
project.
C. THAT Council approve, in principle, an amendment to section 2.2. of the
Protection of Trees By-law, to define a tree as having a diameter of 30 cm., rather
than the existing 20 cm., as generally set out in Appendix E of the Report dated
June 1, 2021, entitled “Internal Development Application and Permitting
Modernization Task Force – First Bi-Monthly Update”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
for enactment, a by-law generally in accordance with Appendix E of the above-
noted report.
D. THAT Council approve, in principle, a 12 month delay in the implementation of
amendments to the Building By-law, as set out in sections 19 through 42 of
By-law No. 12692, relating to mandatory zero emission building construction
guidelines for all new homes, to enable Development, Buildings and Licensing,
staff to remain focussed on clearing existing backlogs before reallocating staff to
developing the zero emission building compliance management framework;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
the necessary by-law amendments for enactment by Council.
carried
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 1 pm and reconvened at 4:27 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT Council approve, in principle, a 12 month delay in the implementation of
amendments to the Building By-law, as set out in sections 19 through 42 of
By-law No. 12692, relating to mandatory zero emission building construction
guidelines, and to approve exemption of all applications related to heritage and
character buildings until the planned Heritage Retrofit Bulletin can be produced,
in order to enable Development, Buildings and Licensing, staff to remain
focussed on clearing existing backlogs before reallocating staff to developing
amendments to the Bulletin 2014-007 “Conservation of Heritage Buildings and
Compliance with Vancouver’s Building By-Law”, as directed by Council on

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 09, 2021 6
April 29, 2020;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
the necessary by-law amendments for enactment by Council.
LOST (Vote No. 07366)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe, and Mayor Stewart opposed)
* * * * *
During debate on the amendment, the Committee recessed at 5 pm and
reconvened at 6:00 pm.
* * * * *
During discussion on the motion, Chair Bligh relinquished the Chair to Vice-Chair Fry, in order to
ask a point of information and resumed as Chair when completed.
The amendment having lost the motion was put and the Committee agreed to sever the motion
on its components, with A having CARRIED (Vote No. 07367) with Councillors De Genova and
Hardwick opposed, B having CARRIED (Vote No. 07368) with Councillors Carr, De Genova,
Fry, Hardwick, and Wiebe opposed, C having CARRIED (Vote No. 07369) with Councillors Carr,
De Genova, Fry, Hardwick, and Wiebe opposed, and D having LOST (Vote No. 07370) with
Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe, and Mayor Stewart opposed.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council adopt the resolution, attached as Appendix C of the Report dated
June 1, 2021, entitled “Internal Development Application and Permitting
Modernization Task Force – First Bi-Monthly Update”, not to enforce certain
design guidelines that have been developed for one and two family dwellings
seeking a development permit in specific neighbourhoods (RS-3 and RS-3A, RS-
5, RT-3, RT-6, RT-7, RT-8, RT-9 and RT-10 Zoning Districts) to enable faster
processing of residential development permit applications by reducing the
number of conditions and reviews associated with them;
FURTHER THAT the resolution apply for a period of 12 months as part of a pilot
project.
B. THAT Council adopt the resolution, attached as Appendix D of the Report dated
June 1, 2021, entitled “Internal Development Application and Permitting
Modernization Task Force – First Bi-Monthly Update”, not to enforce specific
sections of the Protection of Trees By-law to enable faster processing of
development permit applications and reduce further growth of backlogs;
FURTHER THAT the resolution apply for a period of 12 months as part of a pilot
project.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, June 09, 2021 7
C. THAT Council approve, in principle, an amendment to section 2.2. of the
Protection of Trees By-law, to define a tree as having a diameter of 30 cm., rather
than the existing 20 cm., as generally set out in Appendix E of the Report dated
June 1, 2021, entitled “Internal Development Application and Permitting
Modernization Task Force – First Bi-Monthly Update”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
for enactment, a by-law generally in accordance with Appendix E of the above-
noted report.
4. Closure and Sale of Lane Adjacent to 1750 Franklin Street and 1717-1771 East
Hastings Street
May 14, 2021
At the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, due to time constraints, this item was referred to the
June 9, 2021, Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council close, stop-up and convey to Hallmark Poultry Processing Ltd.
(“Hallmark”), the owner of the Abutting Lands, as legally described in Appendix B
of the Report dated May 14, 2021, entitled “Closure and Sale of Lane Adjacent to
1750 Franklin Street and 1717-1771 East Hastings Street”, that approximately
804.5 square metre (8660 square feet) portion of lane (the “Lane Portion”), the
same as generally shown outlined in bold on the plan attached as Appendix C of
the same report, subject to the terms and conditions noted in Appendix A of the
same report.
B. THAT the sale proceeds of $4,763,000 be credited to the Property Endowment
Fund (PEF).
LOST (Vote No. 07371)
(Councillors Bligh, Carr, Fry, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, and Wiebe opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 7:05 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
JUNE 9, 2021
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, June 9, 2021, at
7:05 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova, Deputy Mayor
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Mayor Stewart - Leave of Absence – Civic Business, 3 pm to
10 pm
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, June 9, 2021
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. 2021 Homelessness Action Week and Supportive Housing Grants
2. Transfer of Parks Development Cost Levies (DCL) to the Property Endowment Fund for
the Burrard Slopes Park Expansion, Designation of Permanent Park and Approval of a
Capital Budget for Deconstruction
3. Internal Development Application and Permitting Modernization Task Force – First Bi-
Monthly Update
4. Closure and Sale of Lane Adjacent to 1750 Franklin Street and 1717-1771 East Hastings
Street
Items 1 to 4

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 2
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of June 9, 2021, as contained in items 1 to 4, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. Granville Street Promenade - A People First, Pedestrian Friendly, Summer 2021
Pilot
At the May 18, 2021, Council meeting, Council referred this motion to the Standing Committee
on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 19, 2021, in order to hear from speakers. On
May 27, 2021, Council heard from speakers and began debate. During debate, Council
postponed decision on this motion to the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, as Unfinished
Business. Subsequently, due to time constraints at the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, debate
on this motion was referred to the June 9, 2021, Council meeting following the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services, as Unfinished Business.
At the May 27, 2021, Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priories meeting, Council
agreed to postpone its decision on the amended amendment on the floor.
AMENDED AMENDMENT TO BE VOTED ON
THAT Council ask staff to report back on a Summer 2022 Granville Street Promenade
pilot that includes recommendations on other street promenades like Water Street,
Robson, or others commercial streets around the city that could be piloted;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct staff to work to ensure that the changes on Granville
Street are safe for bicycle and other delivery people.
LOST (Vote No. 07373)
(Councillors Bligh, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Swanson abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
At 7:29 pm, during discussion on the motion, Councillor Kirby-Yung rose on a point of order
under Section 6.1(b) of the Procedure By-law. Deputy Mayor De Genova ruled in favour of
Councillor Kirby-Yung’s point of order and reminded Councillors to not impugn the motives of
other Councillors.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following in addition to D:

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 3
FURTHER THAT Parties work together to ensure safe access, passage and
movement for cyclists including delivery couriers, and work together to ensure a
safe, welcoming environment for all visitors and residents.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07374)
The amendments having either lost or carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07375) with Councillor De Genova abstaining from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. At the Standing Committee of Council on Finance and City Services on May 13,
2020, Council unanimously approved the motion Flexible, Innovative and
Expedited Patio Permitting. With the continuing pandemic, Council also approved
a follow-up motion to extend the program in September, 2020 to provide ongoing
support for restaurants and craft breweries; over 500 permits have been
approved attesting to the need for and utility of the program;
2. The May 2020 motion also called for the creation of pop-up plazas and space for
people to safely enjoy outdoors. Since, activation of nine pop-up plazas by BIA’s
have been put in place in multiple neighbourhoods, and have been popular and
well-enjoyed spaces during COVID-19;
3. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a devastating economic impact on
Vancouver’s restaurant and hospitality sector, particularly on Granville Street
being among the first closed and anticipated to be among the last to reopen due
to public health orders;
4. On May 3, 2021, Dr. Bonnie Henry announced that no large-scale events would
be permitted this summer, further underlining the need for places for people to
safely enjoy outdoors;
5. Granville Street is slated for an upcoming planning process designed to revitalize
and maximize this cultural and entertainment destination; a public space project
could help inform future opportunities for the area and help the City move
towards a more vibrant and people-focused City in a new, post-COVID-19 world;
6. Local musicians and artists have also been hard hit by COVID-19 losing
opportunities to perform and connect with people;
7. Examples of people-first activations in other cities include Montreal where
several blocks of Sainte-Catherine Street are shut down to car traffic in the spring
and summer to make way to entertainment, sidewalk sales and more, and
Toronto’s King Street Transit Priority Corridor;
8. Increased public spaces support our local economy, enhance our social fabric
and the vitality of placemaking in our City;

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 4
9. Social isolation and the mental health impacts of the pandemic are real; giving
people places to safely gather outside can help overcome these challenges;
10. The responsiveness demonstrated by the City of Vancouver to adapt quickly to
support small business and residents has been a lifeline and demonstrated what
a positive economic and social impact the City can have when we are more
creative with public space;
11. Translink has seen a significant drop in ridership during COVID-19 and aims to
support local business and initiatives that will encourage people to get back on
the bus;
12. A Summer 2021 people-first and pedestrian-friendly public space pilot could
support welcoming people back to the street, support expanded pop-up plazas
and local businesses; and
13. Public response to the idea of increasing space for the public and supporting
businesses, has been positive from residents, local business, the Downtown
Vancouver Business Improvement Association (DVBIA), Hospitality Vancouver
Association (HVA), Translink, Music BC, and local musicians.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirms its support for a Summer 2021 Granville Street Promenade
pilot and direct staff to work with the Downtown Vancouver Business
Improvement Association, Hospitality Vancouver Association and Translink to
support a people-first pedestrian-friendly public space initiative for July through
September, with final dates to be confirmed upon discussion with partners.
B. THAT Council acknowledges the intended area for the Summer 2021 pilot is
envisioned to be on Granville Street from Smithe to Helmcken and that the goal
is for the space to be bus and car free on weekends (Friday Nights, Saturdays
and Sundays).
C. THAT the pilot Granville Street Promenade activation is envisioned to support
local businesses through the Temporary Expedited Patio Program, have open,
accessible commons-style public seating and decor, have designated area for
local musicians to perform through partnerships with the Translink Busker
Program and/or Music BC as facilitated by the Downtown Vancouver Business
Improvement Association, as well as potential local artist displays.
The Downtown Vancouver Business Improvement Association will also explore
the feasibility of activations on the blocks north of Smithe to Pender (since these
blocks are for authorized vehicles only, rerouted buses for the vehicle-free pilot in
B above may create opportunities for further activations here as well).
D. THAT the parties work together to ensure clear signage for the public with
respect to changes to bus routing, as well as any identified taxi and ride share
drop off zones on cross streets;

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 5
FURTHER THAT Parties work together to ensure safe access, passage and
movement for cyclists including delivery couriers, and work together to ensure a
safe, welcoming environment for all visitors and residents.
E. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the results and learnings from the
Summer 2021 pilot by the end of January 2022, including options for continuing
similar initiatives on Granville Street annually as part of Vancouver’s rethink of
public space use in a new post-pandemic world.
2. Appointment of Council Representative to the Inaugural Board of the Zero
Emissions Innovation Centre
At the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, due to time constraints, Council referred this item to the
June 9, 2021, Council meeting following Standing Committee, as Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council appoint Councillor Carr to the Inaugural Board of the Zero Emissions
Innovation Centre, as the City of Vancouver Board Member, for the term of
June 8, 2021, to November 7, 2022.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07376)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
3. Regulation Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and Miscellaneous
Amendments
May 28, 2021
At the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, due to time constraints, Council referred this item to the
June 9, 2021, Council meeting following Standing Committee, as Unfinished Business.
Theresa O’Donnell, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with
Marco D’Agostini, Regulatory Framework Project Manager, City-wide and Regional Planning,
and Paul Mochrie, City Manager, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021,
entitled “Regulation Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and
Miscellaneous Amendments”, to:
(i) add new definitions for building height and decorative roof to Section 2
and amend the definition for base surface;

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 6
(ii) update height regulations in section 10.18; and
(iii) subject to approval of A(ii), in sections 4.17.8 of the RS-6 and RS-7
District Schedules, correct a reference to section 10.18;
and that the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law for
various housekeeping amendments, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled “Regulation Redesign – Simplifying
Height Regulations and Miscellaneous Amendments”, to:
(i) add infill dwellings to section 10.23A;
(ii) in section 4.19.2 of the RM-8, RM-8A, RM-8N and RM-8AN Districts
Schedule, replace ‘a second principal building’ with ‘more than one
principal building’ to enable the intended form of development described
in the intent statement of the schedule and the guidelines;
(iii) correct a reference in section 6.4;
(iv) add I-1A, I-1B and I-1C districts to the list of zoning districts in section 9.1;
(v) update reference to districts in section 10.27;
(vi) correct a reference in Schedule C;
(vii) delete section 4.2.2 in the RM-7, RM-7 and RM-7AN Districts Schedules;
(viii) remove a duplicate word in section 4.14.1(i) in the C-2 District Schedule;
(ix) reorder accessory uses in the FM-1 and RM-9, RM-9A, RM-9N, RM-9AN
and RM-9BN Districts Schedules to align with other district schedules;
(x) update references to entries, porches, verandahs and covered porches in
various District Schedules that were inadvertently missed in amending
By-law 12731;
(xi) update residential uses and remove date restrictions for neighbourhood
grocery stores that were inadvertently missed in amending by-law 12893
in RS-1B, RS-3, RS-3A, RM-4 and RM-4N, , and RT-11 and RT-11N
Districts Schedules; and
(xii) insert ‘building containing dwelling units in conjunction with child day care
facility, provided that all residential floor area is developed as social

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 7
housing’ into the list of uses that are subject to the rental housing
replacement and site area requirements in the RM-3A and RM-4 and RM-
4N district(s) schedule and the frontage requirements in the RM-4 and
RM-4N districts schedule, as these regulations were intended to apply;
and that the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing;
C. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer
District Official Development Plan, generally as presented in Appendix B of the
Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled “Regulation Redesign – Simplifying
Height Regulations and Miscellaneous Amendments”, to re-insert “general office”
as an exception to the retail continuity requirement as it was inadvertently
omitted;
and that the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing;
D. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Sign By-law, generally as presented
in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled “Regulation
Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and Miscellaneous Amendments”, to:
(i) amend Part 7 – Sign Districts, to correct an omission by adding the I-1C
District Schedule to the list of sign districts;
(ii) amend Part 9 – Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign District, to
correct omissions by including missing district schedules and to correct
typographical errors;
and that the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix C of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
E. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development Fee
By-law, generally as presented in Appendix D of the Referral Report dated May
28, 2021, entitled “Regulation Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and
Miscellaneous Amendments”, to correct references, and that the application be
referred to a Public Hearing.

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 8
F. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Noise Control By-law, generally as
set out in Appendix E of the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled
“Regulation Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and Miscellaneous
Amendments”, to add missing district schedules, and that the application be
referred to a Public Hearing.
G. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Subdivision By-law, generally as set
out in Appendix F of the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled “Regulation
Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and Miscellaneous Amendments”, to
add missing district schedules and to remove repealed district schedules, and
that the application be referred to a Public Hearing.
H. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the License By-law, generally as set out
in Appendix G of the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled “Regulation
Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and Miscellaneous Amendments”, to
correct an incorrect reference in section 26.4, and that the application be referred
to a Public Hearing.
I. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Parking By-law, generally as set out
in Appendix H of the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled “Regulation
Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and Miscellaneous Amendments”, to
insert correct by-law and CD-1 numbers, and that the application be referred to a
Public Hearing.
J. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the following land use documents,
generally as presented in Appendix I of the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021,
entitled “Regulation Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and
Miscellaneous Amendments”:
(i) subject to approval of recommendation B(ii), RM-8 and RM-8N Guidelines
to align with the regulations for number of buildings on a site in the RM-8,
RM-8A, RM-8N and RM-8AN Districts Schedule;
(ii) subject to approval of recommendation B(ii), the RM-8A and RM-8AN
Guidelines to align with the regulations for the number of buildings on a
site in the regulations in the RM-8, RM-8A, RM-8N and RM-8AN Districts
Schedule;
(iii) the Guidelines for the Administration of Variances for Zero Emission
Buildings in the RS, RT and RA Districts, to clarify submission materials
for net zero energy applications, to add a reference to a mechanical room

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 9
exclusion previously approved by Council, and to correct grammatical
errors;
(iv) the Guidelines for the Administration of Variance in Larger Zero Emission
Buildings to clarify submission materials for net zero energy applications,
to add a reference to a mechanical room exclusion previously approved
by Council, and to correct grammatical errors;
(v) the Artist Studio Guidelines to remove an outdated explanatory note and
correct grammatical errors and numbering;
(vi) the Rezoning Policy for Sustainable Large Developments to correct a
reference to an administrative bulletin;
(vii) the West End Georgia/Alberni Guidelines, to rename the guidelines RM-6
West End Georgia/Alberni Guidelines; and
(viii) the Charles/Adanac RS-1 Rezoning Policy to repeal it, as it has been
superseded by updated land use policy;
and that the application be referred to a Public Hearing.
carried
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council refer the Referral Report dated May 28, 2021, entitled “Regulation
Redesign – Simplifying Height Regulations and Miscellaneous Amendments”, back to
staff in order to separate out into three separate reports the Recommendation A in its
entirety regarding changes to building heights, Recommendation B regarding all related
changes to RM8, RM-8A, RM-8N and RM-8AN, and all other miscellaneous items, with
more detailed information in each report regarding what the changes are and how they
will affect the form of development in each zone;
FURTHER THAT these three reports be brought forward for Council consideration for
referral to Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT Council instruct staff to limit reports on Miscellaneous
Amendments to only minor text amendments that do not affect the form of development
or use, and for items that do affect form of development or use, to be submitted to
Council as separate reports, with explanatory details of what the changes are and how
they affect the form of development, to inform both Council and the public.
LOST (Vote No. 07377)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, and Wiebe
opposed)
The referral having lost, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 07378) with Councillor
Hardwick opposed.

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 10
Prior to the start of Item 4, Councillor Wiebe declared a Conflict of Interest on this item under
Section 145.2(2) of the Vancouver Charter due to being an owner of an RM-4 property.
Councillor Wiebe left the meeting and did not return until the completion of the item.
4. RM-3A, RM-4, and RM-4N Guidelines for Social Housing
At the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, due to time constraints, Council referred this item to the
June 9, 2021, Council meeting following Standing Committee, as Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the document entitled “RM-3A, RM-4, and RM-4N Guidelines for Social Housing”,
as considered by Council at the Public Hearing on April 20, 2021, be approved by
Council for use by applicants and staff for development applications in the relevant
districts.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07379)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
5. Closure and Sale of Lane Adjacent to 1750 Franklin Street and 1717-1771 East
Hastings Street
At the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, due to time constraints, Council referred this item to the
June 9, 2021, Council meeting following Standing Committee, as Unfinished Business.
As this resolution is subject to approval of Report dated May 14, 2021, entitled “Closure and
Sale of Lane Adjacent to 1750 Franklin Street and 1717-1771 East Hastings Street”, and
Council having not approved the above-noted report, this resolution is thus withdrawn.
BY-LAWS
At the June 8, 2021, Council meeting, due to time constraints, Council referred this item to the
June 9, 2021, Council meeting following Standing Committee, as Unfinished Business.
Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Fry, Hardwick, and Wiebe, advised to have reviewed the proceedings
related to by-law 4 and would therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillor De Genova, advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to by-laws 7 and 11
and would therefore be voting on the enactment.

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 11
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the by-
laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 3, 5, and 7 to 11 inclusive,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the by-
law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 4, and authorize the Mayor and City
Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07380)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung and Swanson absent for the vote)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the by-
law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 6, and authorize the Mayor and City
Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07381)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
1. A By-law to amend the City Land Regulation By-law No. 8735 regarding consumption of
liquor on city land (2021) (By-law No. 12999)
2. A By-law to amend the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 regarding removal of snow or
ice from sidewalk (By-law No. 13000)
3. A By-law to amend the Ticket Offences By-law No. 9360 regarding amendments to the
Street and Traffic By-law regarding failure to clear snow and ice within 24 Hours (By-law
No. 13001)
4. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law to rezone an area to CD-1 (1506
West 68th Avenue and 8405-8465 Granville Street) (By-law No. 13002)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
5. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2628 Duke Street (By-law No. 13003)
6. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3701 – 3743 West Broadway (By-law
No. 13004)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, June 9, 2021 12
7. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No.11879 re: 4506 Rupert Street and 3309 Price Street
(By-law No. 13005)
8. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (4506 Rupert Street and 3309 Price)
(By-law No. 13006)
9. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No.11879 (118-150 Robson Street) (By-law No. 13007)
(Councillors Dominato, Hardwick, and Swanston ineligible for the vote)
10. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (118-150 Robson Street) (By-law
No. 13008)
11. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1425 and 1451 East 12th Avenue) (By-law No. 13009)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 8:29 pm.
* * * * *