COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 30, 2021
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, March 30, 2021, at
9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial
Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, Acting City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
MOMENT OF SILENCE – Victims of the Lynn Valley Library Stabbing
The Mayor recognized the tragedy that took place this past week at the Lynn Valley Library in
North Vancouver and Council observed a moment of silence in memory of the loss of life and
those injured, as well as for the community affected by this event.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed
by the city;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to business
interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act;
and
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Public Hearing – February 11, 16, 23, 24, March 2, and 4, 2021
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of February 11, 16, 23, 24, March 2, and 4,
2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 3
2. Council – March 9, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of March 9, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Public Hearing – March 9, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of March 9, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – March 10, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting of March 10, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Auditor General Recruitment Committee – March 12, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Auditor General Recruitment Committee meeting of
March 12, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Reports 4, 5, and 6, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND REPORT 5
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 4
At 9:39 am, prior to the start of Report 1, Councillor Wiebe a declared conflict of interest on
Report 2 – One Time Exceptions to Liquor Primary Establishment Distancing and Moratoria,
due to having a business interest in an establishment in the Downtown Eastside (DTES).
REPORTS
1. 2020 Statement of Financial Information
March 16, 2021
Patrice Impey, General Manager, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, introduced the
item, and Julia Aspinall, Director, Financial Services, together with Colin Knight, Director,
City-Wide Financial Planning and Analysis, provided a presentation, and along with Lloyd Lee,
Monitoring and Reporting Planner, Sustainability Group, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council approve the 2020 Statement of Financial Information for filing with
the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing pursuant to the Financial
Information Act.
B. THAT Council receive for information the portion of the 2020 Statement of
Financial Information, which represents the report of the City’s auditors on the
2020 financial statements of the City pursuant to Section 231 of the Vancouver
Charter.
C. THAT Council receive for consideration the portion of the 2020 Statement of
Financial Information as it pertains to the remuneration and expenses of Council
members pursuant to Section 196A of the Vancouver Charter.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added as D:
THAT Council direct staff to report back at the earliest opportunity on the
potential to and impact of deferring the 2021 property tax payment due date to
the Fall 2021;
FURTHER THAT the report back include information on the potential for
specifically deferring business class taxes versus residential.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 5
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added at the end:
AND FURTHER THAT the Mayor contact the Minister of Finance and Minister of
Municipal Affairs in order to explore coordination and alignment of potential tax
due and transfer dates.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07088)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07089).
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07090).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve the 2020 Statement of Financial Information for filing with
the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing pursuant to the Financial
Information Act.
B. THAT Council receive for information the portion of the 2020 Statement of
Financial Information, which represents the report of the City’s auditors on the
2020 financial statements of the City pursuant to Section 231 of the Vancouver
Charter.
C. THAT Council receive for consideration the portion of the 2020 Statement of
Financial Information as it pertains to the remuneration and expenses of Council
members pursuant to Section 196A of the Vancouver Charter.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back at the earliest opportunity on the
potential to and impact of deferring the 2021 property tax payment due date to
the Fall 2021;
FURTHER THAT the report back include information on the potential for
specifically deferring business class taxes versus residential;
AND FURTHER THAT the Mayor contact the Minister of Finance and Minister of
Municipal Affairs in order to explore coordination and alignment of potential tax
due and transfer dates.
Prior to the start of Report 2, due to conflict of interest, Councillor Wiebe left the meeting and did
not return until the completion of the item.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 6
2. One Time Exceptions to Liquor Primary Establishment Distancing and Moratoria
March 12, 2021
Kathryn Holm, Chief Licence Inspector and Director, Licensing and Community Standards,
Development, Buildings and Licensing, provided a presentation, and along with staff from
Development, Buildings and Licensing and Paul Mochrie, Acting City Manager, responded to
questions.
Council heard from one speaker in support of the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT Council approve a change to the moratoria in the Granville Entertainment
District and the Downtown Eastside to allow one-time exceptions for occupant
increases at Liquor Establishments as described in the Report dated
March 12, 2021, entitled “One Time Exceptions to Liquor Primary Establishment
Distancing and Moratoria”.
B. THAT Council approve a change to the City’s Distancing requirements for Liquor
Establishments to allow one-time exceptions for occupant load increases of up to
30% of current occupant load for establishments in conflict with Distancing, as
described in the Report dated March 12, 2021, entitled “One Time Exceptions to
Liquor Primary Establishment Distancing and Moratoria”.
C. THAT Council approve, in principle, changes to the License By-law No. 4450 that
enable the Chief Licence Inspector to permit an increase in the seating capacity
above the licence class maximum for a liquor establishment without requiring that
liquor establishment to change its class;
FURTHER THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to bring
forward for enactment amendments to the License By-law No. 4450, as generally
outlined in Appendix A of the Report dated March 12, 2021, entitled “One Time
Exceptions to Liquor Primary Establishment Distancing and Moratoria”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07091)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
3. Approval of 2021-22 Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets
March 2, 2021
Council heard from one speaker in support and one speaker who spoke to other aspects of the
report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council approve the 2021-22 fiscal year Business Improvement Areas (BIA)
Budgets as described in the Report dated March 2, 2021, entitled “Approval of 2021-22

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 7
Business Improvement Area (BIA) Budgets”, and approve grants to 22 BIAs totalling
$15,255,091 (to be disbursed as outlined in Table 1, column A, of the above-noted
report);
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward the
appropriate rating by-laws to recover the amounts of these grants.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07092)
4. Funding Application to FCM’s Green Municipal Fund Sustainable Affordable
Housing Program for the Coal Harbour Mixed-Use Project
March 8, 2021
THAT Council approve an application to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities’
Green Municipal Fund Sustainable Affordable Housing Program for a loan of up to
$3.7 million and a grant of up to $3.7 million for the Affordable Housing component of the
Coal Harbour School, Childcare and Affordable Housing Project.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07102)
5. 2021 Animal Welfare Grant
February 27, 2021
THAT Council approve four (4) Animal Welfare Grants totalling $12,174, the total amount
allocated in the 2021 budget for this purpose, to the following organizations:
i. Vancouver Orphan Kitten Rescue Association (VOKRA) $4,000
ii. Greyhaven Exotic Bird Sanctuary $4,000
iii. British Columbia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (BC SPCA) – Charlie’s Food Bank $2,152
iv. Critter Care Wildlife Society $2,022
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 07103)
6. Amendment to Resolutions for 313 and 309 Alexander Street Lease
March 19, 2021
A. THAT Council approve Atira Development Society, an affiliate of Atira Women’s
Resource Society (the originally approved lessee), as the selected non-profit
partner to operate the 24-room Single Room Occupancy (SRO) located at
313 Alexander Street and legally described as PID: 015-818-535, Lot 2,
Block 39, District Lot 196, Plan 196 (the ”Ross-Aoki House”) and the adjacent
parking lot, located at 309 Alexander Street and legally described as PID: 015-
818-551, Lot 3, Block 39, District Lot 196, Plan 196.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 8
B. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute a lease with Atira Development Society for the Ross-Aoki House
consistent with the lease terms described in the Council Report regarding the
Ross-Aoki House dated February 9, 2021.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07103)
BY-LAWS
Councillor Bligh advised to have reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 15 and would be
voting on the enactment.
At the Council meeting on March 9, 2021, Councillor Wiebe advised to have reviewed the
proceedings related to By-law 16 and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councilor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 16, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07094)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
MOVED by Councilor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 20, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07096)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 15, 17 to 19, and 21 to 23,
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07106)
1. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
Hastings Crossing (By-law No. 12921)
2. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the Hastings Crossing
Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 12922)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 9
3. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
Kerrisdale (By-law No. 12923)
4. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the Kerrisdale Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 12924)
5. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
Kitsilano 4th Avenue (By-law No. 12925)
6. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the Kitsilano 4th Avenue
Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 12926)
7. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
Mount Pleasant (By-law No. 12927)
8. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the Mount Pleasant
Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 12928)
9. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
West Broadway (By-law No. 12929)
10. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the West Broadway
Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 12930)
11. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
Hastings North Expansion #2 (By-law No. 12931)
12. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the Hastings North
Expansion #2 Business Improvement Area (By-law No. 12932)
13. A By-law to Designate a Business Improvement Area in that area of the City known as
West End (By-law No. 12933)
14. A By-law to Grant Money for a Business Promotion Scheme in the West End Business
Improvement Area (By-law No. 12934)
15. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 regarding 2499 East 48th Avenue (By-law No. 12935)
16. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 regarding 3680 East Hastings Street
(By-law No. 12936)
17. A By-law to assess real property to defray 2020 costs for the East Hastings Street
Collective Parking Project (By-law No. 12937)
18. A By-law to assess real property to defray 2020 maintenance costs for the Trounce Alley
and Blood Alley Square Local Improvement Project (By-law No. 12938)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 10
19. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8AN regarding 6750-6770 Oak Street and 975 West 52nd Avenue
(By-law No. 12939)
(Councillors Fry and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
20. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 regarding 5055 Joyce Street (By-law No. 12940)
21. A By-Law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1425 and 1451 East 12th Avenue
(By-law No. 12941)
22. A By-Law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1102-1138 East Georgia Street
(By-law No. 12942)
23. 2021 Land Assessment Averaging By-law (By-law No. 12943)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development – 2495 East 48th Avenue
(Previously 2499 East 48th Avenue)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 2495 East 48th
Avenue (previously 2499 East 48th Avenue) be approved generally as illustrated in the
Development Application Number DP-2020-00020, prepared by Integra Architecture Inc.
and uploaded on November 20, 2020, provided that the Director of Planning may impose
conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the
development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07107)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:56 am and reconvened at 6:02 pm.
* * * * *
The meeting reconvened with Deputy Mayor Wiebe in the Chair.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 11
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Councillor Fry be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from meetings on
May 18, 2021, from 10:30 am to 12 pm, and from 3 pm to 4:30 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07108)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
2. Increasing Public Access to Information About False Creek South
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
WHEREAS
1. In principle, as much City information as possible should be made public, unless
there’s a legal reason not to make it public, as outlined in Section 165.2 of the
Vancouver Charter; and
2. Many residents of False Creek south are worried that too many decisions about
their neighbourhood will be made In Camera.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT staff examine reports regarding the future of South False Creek, including
negotiations, consultations and visioning with area residents and residents of
other parts of the city, and options for decisions, to determine which components
relate to City policies that must be public, and which are more appropriately
discussed at a closed meeting of Council.
B. THAT staff ensure that reports and information that can legally be made public
are made public.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion entitled “Increasing Public Access to Information About False Creek
South” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
March 31, 2021, in order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 12
3. Turning Construction Hoarding into a Canvas for Public Art in Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. A quality public realm helps deliver dynamic, engaging and active urban and
neighbourhood experiences at a human scale. It can encourage people to use
sustainable transportation modes – to walk, cycle or use transit – by creating
accessible and memorable spaces;
2. Vancouver's public spaces – our plazas, squares, streets, laneways, pathways,
and waterfront – are where public life happens. These spaces are where we
connect with the city and with each other. They are where community is created;
3. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on our city. Every resident
and every business has struggled or had to adapt. Vancouver’s response to the
pandemic has been significant focusing on supporting and accelerating economic
and community recovery, and on helping people, organizations and businesses
recover and move forward;
4. The City of Vancouver and Vancouver City Council consider arts and culture to
be vitally important to the city’s liveability, and recognize the value the arts bring
to the lives of residents and our city. The sector has been one of the hardest hit
by the pandemic;
5. Vancouver is a city that prides itself on being alive with creativity, offering music,
dance, new media, theatre, festivals, film, design, exhibitions, galleries,
museums, and special events. The City encourages people to “Go out and
explore arts and culture in Vancouver.”;
6. In September 2019, Council approved a new culture plan. Culture|Shift:
Blanketing the City in Arts and Culture provides a framework with strategic
directions and actions that seeks to include previously under-represented voices
and constituencies, build partnerships across communities and sectors, and
develop strategies that place arts and culture at the forefront;
7. The City’s support for public art takes many forms with a variety of Public Art
Programs that support excellence in public art by emerging and established
artists, in new and traditional media, and through award-winning commissions
and artist collaborations that produce contemporary art for public spaces
throughout the city;
8. In May 2020, amid the challenges presented by the pandemic, Council and the
City reaffirmed Vancouver’s commitment to supporting arts and culture during
this crisis and noted that supporting artists and arts and culture organizations in
our community continues to be a priority;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 13
9. In terms of the economic standing of the arts and artists in Vancouver, the
Employment Lands and Economy Review research conducted by the City last
year noted that Vancouver "has the highest concentration of artists per capita of
major cities with 8,800 artists making up 2.4% of the local labour force.” The
majority of artists live under the poverty line with 63 percent of artists reporting an
income of less than $40,000 per year. The median income of Vancouver artists is
$22,116, which is 44 percent less than all Vancouver workers. These workers
face multiple barriers to participating in the Vancouver economy – the effects of
COVID-19 have only added additional hardship for this sector;
10. In response to the challenges brought about by COVID-19 and social distancing
requirements, a wide variety of public art expressions emerged serving as a
beacon of hope and connection. For example, the Robson Street Business
Association, Downtown Vancouver Business Improvement Association, and
South Granville Business Improvement Association worked early on during the
pandemic with the Vancouver Mural Festival to connect artists with business
owners in order to create murals on temporary hoarding on storefronts that were
forced to close due to COVID-19. Plain plywood was transformed into colourful
murals and city streets became outdoor public art galleries;
11. In addition to support from local BIAs for hoarding murals and expressions of
public art during the pandemic, the City of Vancouver and other sponsors helped
to fund storefront mural projects by covering the costs of supplies and paying
each artist an honorarium. As part of the City’s Mural Support Program, the City
was able to provide paint and supplies to the local businesses and artists
spearheading this inspiring community initiative. To date, over 100 applicants
have been approved to receive a $400 voucher for paint and supplies to create a
public art piece during the pandemic;
12. Plywood and other hoarding materials are not restricted to temporary storefront
protection. Signs attached to temporary construction fences and temporary
covered construction walkways are called “Hoarding Signs.” The City of
Vancouver has a guide that summarizes the regulations and permitting process
for hoarding signs on private property (as a companion to but not as a substitute
for the Sign Bylaw);
13. As we’ve seen during COVID-19 with storefront hoarding murals, construction
hoarding offers a potential new “canvas” for the city’s artists and arts and culture
organizations to bring to life in terms of fostering a quality public realm that
contributes to engaging, active cultural experiences in our urban spaces;
14. Currently, under the City of Vancouver Sign By-Law (and in the City’s hoarding
signs guide), hoarding signs may list the names of consultants or contractors
working on the property, and may only be displayed while the project is being
constructed. Hoarding signs must not be illuminated;
15. A City of Vancouver permit is required for all large hoarding signs and the signs
are subject to size, height, and location criteria. The rules for large hoarding
signs are the same for all Sign By-law Districts across the city, with the exception
of residential properties along non-arterial streets. The allowed size of large

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 14
hoarding signs is determined by a property’s frontage. For each one metre of
frontage, one square metre of sign copy area is permitted. Properties in the
Residential Sign District along a non-arterial street are allowed 0.6 square metres
per frontage;
16. In 2014, the City of Toronto implemented a new public art initiative that requires
50 percent of the surface area of construction hoarding along public right of ways
be used for community art; the program has received positive pubic response
and supported a number of artists to gain exposure and share their work with
new audiences;
17. Toronto’s construction hoarding mural art program operates at no cost to the City
while enhancing the public realm and creating opportunities and support for local
artists and arts organizations. Developers and construction site owners in
Toronto commission local artists through a number of ways, including utilizing a
non-profit arts group such as STEPS to connect with artists or by engaging
directly with artists should they choose to do so; and
18. Given the high concentration of artists per capita in Vancouver and the multiple
barriers they face to participate in the Vancouver economy, notwithstanding the
additional hardships the arts and culture sector has experienced due to COVID-
19, a program that would facilitate the use of construction hoarding as a canvas
for Public Art could provide a significant and enduring source of income for many
artists and creatives living and working in Vancouver.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back in
Q1 2022 on options for requiring the use of portions or a percentage of construction
hoarding on private property construction and development sites in Vancouver for murals
and public art, with the goal of making these spaces available to local artists and arts
and culture organizations to support recovery of the cultural sector and provide new
opportunities for artists to show their work, including recommendations for any by-law
changes to enable the permitted use of construction hoarding for public art;
FURTHER THAT recommendations and options aim to dovetail with the existing safety
or engineering (structural/sightline) requirements for such hoarding, aiming for ease of
administration within the existing hoarding requirements and permitting process;
AND FURTHER THAT staff consult with stakeholders as part of the exploration of
options for a hoarding mural program including but not limited to the city’s development
and construction sector, representatives from the visual arts community such as the
Vancouver Mural Festival, BIA’s and the City’s Public Art Committee.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion entitled “Turning Construction Hoarding into a Canvas for Public Art in
Vancouver” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 15
meeting on March 31, 2021, in order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Calling for a Plan to Clear Vancouver’s Permit and License Backlog and Revamp
this Critical City Service
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. Construction projects and any change of land use or occupancy on private
property require a building permit. All projects must comply with the Vancouver
Building By-law to meet life safety, livability, accessibility, and sustainability
requirements. In the case of large-scale projects, and/or where zoning
relaxations or particular types of land uses are proposed, a separate
development permit is required before a building permit application can be
submitted;
2. The layering of policy and regulations is a significant contributor to permit
processing delays. Over the course of many years, the City has endeavoured to
introduce various measures to decrease the length and complexity of
Vancouver’s permitting process such as online services, more efficient
procedures, a regulatory review, the ASAP pilot and programs such as the
Certified Professional (CP) Program;
3. Currently there is a significant backlog of building and development permit
applications. Based on data up to 2018, building and development permit
application volumes have gone up by 30 percent since 2007, and trades permit
volumes have gone up nearly 40 percent over the same span;
4. The 2018 and 2019 Civic Service Satisfaction Surveys found that building and
development services ranked near the bottom by both residents and businesses.
In 2018, more than 50% of businesses expressed dissatisfaction with
development and building permit services. And 78 percent of residents felt the
City should invest more in development and building permit service; 85 percent
of businesses said this was critical;
5. Vancouver is not unique in facing a permit application backlog. The cities of
Toronto and Markham in Ontario underwent extensive development process
reviews by KPMG in 2019. These reviews led to a series of recommendations
designed to help ensure that the development review process in these two cities
remains efficient, effective, and impactful as the volume, pace, and complexity of
development evolves;
6. In Metro Vancouver, permit application backlogs have also been experienced
over the past decade by municipalities large and small such as Surrey,
Coquitlam, White Rock, and Abbotsford. For example, a cyclical review in

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 16
Coquitlam made 21 recommendations that included organizational changes and
more customer service and proactive problem solving, in order to handle the
unprecedented high levels of permit and inspection activity in the city;
7. In response to public concerns, in 2019, City staff began laying out a plan to
simplify and reduce development processes, including speeding up permits,
leveraging technology to deliver services online and improving the overall
customer experience;
8. The current backlog situation represents a watershed moment for our city and
requires urgent attention. The Covid-19 pandemic has created a perfect storm
due to the volume and complexity of projects requiring permits, while at the same
time resulting in a dramatic shift in City staff working from home but without the
necessary, supporting technology infrastructure. Available staff resources are
currently fully allocated to processing permit applications from previous years.
Yet new applications continue to flood in and the situation has been further
exacerbated by an increased emphasis on new rental housing projects,
combined with a similar increase in demand and interest from homeowners
looking to improve make home improvements to better cope with pandemic
challenges;
9. In response to queries from Council and others, staff point to the need to
establish and implement new and better systems to clear the permitting backlog.
By focusing on the backlog of smaller-scale projects and clearing those
expeditiously, it would free up resources to concentrate on more complex larger-
scale housing projects that are also backlogged including urgently needed non-
profit, social and market rental housing;
10. Moving forward, separating permit processes into two streams – one that is
specific to smaller-scale development such as improvements to single family
homes, duplexes and smaller rental projects, condo improvements, laneway
houses and small-scale commercial projects, and a second stream for larger-
scale development - could support ongoing, quicker turnaround of permit
approvals;
11. The City’s permit application backlog is having serious financial and other
negative effects for applicants and City staff alike. For example, a recent study by
LOCO BC in partnership with the Downtown Vancouver Business Improvement
Association, the Building Owners and Managers Association of BC, and the
Vancouver BIA Partnership among others, found that the average wait time for
permits and licensing in Vancouver is 8.2 months. The average corresponding
economic loss per business permit or licence is estimated to be in excess of
$720,000. Delayed permits have contributed to an environment of instability and
uncertainty for businesses in addition to escalating costs;
12. On March 5, 2021, the Provincial Government began accepting applications for a
$15-million program to help local governments improve their development
approvals processes, such as upgrades to a digital or online development
application process or conducting internal reviews of current development
approvals processes to identify opportunities for improvement; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 17
13. Addressing the City’s permit backlog and investing in the technological and other
transformative changes will pay dividends not only in the short-term, but also the
long term to help meet the City’s housing goals and better serve residents and
businesses alike. It will also significantly strengthen post-pandemic economic
recovery.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back within 30 days with an action plan to
clear the City’s permit and license backlog by or before the end of Q3 2022;
FURTHER THAT the proposed action plan consider a range of options to
address the existing backlog, including but not limited to, streamlining and
simplifying regulations, expanding use of credentialed professionals to reduce
the need for a secondary review by staff, seconding other municipal employees
or retired employees, reallocating resources, and/or adopting new tools and
technology.
B. THAT Council direct staff to develop a medium term plan in 2021 that identifies
strategies for systemic changes with respect to the City’s development and
permit system, including but not limited to, organizational restructuring, new
technology adoption, client navigation support, defined service standards, and an
accountability and monitoring framework;
FURTHER THAT the plan include considerations for the 2022 budget, including
identifying the required multi-year technology investments necessary to improve
overall service delivery.
C. THAT staff identify and pursue funding opportunities to support this work, such
as the recently announced Provincial Government program to help local
governments improve their development services and approvals processes.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the motion entitled “Calling for a Plan to Clear Vancouver’s Permit and License
Backlog and Revamp this Critical City Service” be referred to the Standing Committee
on City Finance and Services meeting on March 31, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Accessible Voting Options for Municipal Elections - WITHDRAWN
Prior to the start of Notice of Council Member’s Motions, Mayor Stewart resumed the Chair.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 18
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Preserving Bus Ridership During COVID and Beyond
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 13, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
2. Enhancing Organizational Governance and Development
Councillor Dominato submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 13, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
3. Joint Vancouver City Council-Vancouver School Board Committee to Collaborate
on Capital Projects
Councillor Carr submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 13, 2021, as a Council Members’
Motion.
4. Accessible Voting Options for Municipal Elections
Councillor Wiebe submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 13, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
5. Breaking Glass Ceilings: Advocating for Social Media Platforms and Appropriate
Web Based Forums to be Considered Publishers
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Members’ Motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 13, 2021, as a
Council Members’ Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on March 31, 2021, from 3:30 pm to 5 pm.
CARRIED UNANMOUSLY (Vote No. 07113)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 19
At 6:22 pm, Councillor Wiebe declared conflict of interest on New Business 2 – Additional
Emergency COVID-19 Measures, due to having an open petition related to some aspects noted
in this item. Councillor Wiebe left the meeting and did not return until the completion of the item.
In order to introduce New Business 2, Mayor Stewart relinquished the Chair to Councillor Carr
until the completion of the item, and Council agreed.
2. Additional Emergency COVID-19 Measures
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS the COVID-19 pandemic continues into its second year with provincial health
orders announced March 29, 2021, requiring businesses and other organizations to take
additional measures to contain the spread of the virus at least until April 19, 2021, due to
rising case counts and new variants.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council:
1. Indicate its support for the new preventative measures announced by the
Province on March 29, 2021;
2. Direct staff to waive associated fees for those private and non-profit
organizations requesting the temporary use of public outdoor spaces for patios
and other similar purposes within existing by-laws for the duration of the recent
provincial restrictions on indoor activities;
3. Direct staff to work with industry associations to explore altering or suspending
by-laws regulating the use of public space by businesses and organizations
should health order restrictions extend past April 19, 2021;
4. Direct the Mayor to request the Province to review, by the earliest possible date,
the decision to prohibit breweries, wineries, and tasting rooms not offering
full-meal service from offering patio service;
5. Direct the Mayor to reiterate Council’s request to the Province allowing
municipalities to lessen the tax burden on small businesses by enacting
legislation enabling “split assessment” and separating development potential
from existing use;
6. Direct the Mayor to request the Province to explore allowing municipalities to
lessen the tax burden on small business by enacting legislation enabling a
small-business property subclass and allowing municipalities to set different tax
rates on small, medium and large businesses; and
7. Seek new and expanded support, including additional wage supports for
employees, from the Province and the Federal Government for businesses and
organizations impacted directly by new public health orders.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 20
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as clause 8:
Direct staff to report back with by-law amendments to waive the annual fees for
regular patio/large patio permits for 2021, recognizing that due to COVID
restrictions closures and limited capacities were experienced by operators last
year, and will be again in 2021, with continued uncertainty due to the pandemic
and options to cover the associated revenue reduction.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07097)
(Councillors Fry and Swanson abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as clause 9:
Direct staff to allow existing windbreak walls for existing patios, as well as
windbreak walls for temporary and new patios, in order to increase dining comfort
and patio use so that patios can be seated in all weather, subject to and based
upon approval by Vancouver Fire and Rescue Service, recognizing that
Vancouver Coastal Health and WorkSafeBC also conduct inspections to ensure
health and safety.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the words “and report back on allowing”, replace the words “as well as”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07098)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07099) with Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to
conflict of interest.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following we added as clause 10:
Direct staff to revisit the 2020-approved “Alcohol consumption in public spaces
pilot” to consider timely reactivation of the four pilot plazas as well as any new
locations that might equitably support both local food and drink services that

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 21
cannot otherwise provide patio spaces, and Vancouverites hoping to safely
socialize.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07100)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
The amendments having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07101) with Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of
interest.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS the COVID-19 pandemic continues into its second year with provincial health
orders announced March 29, 2021 requiring businesses and other organizations to take
additional measures to contain the spread of the virus at least until April 19, 2021, due to
rising case counts and new variants.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council:
1. Indicate its support for the new preventative measures announced by the
Province on March 29, 2021;
2. Direct staff to waive associated fees for those private and non-profit
organizations requesting the temporary use of public outdoor spaces for patios
and other similar purposes within existing by-laws for the duration of the recent
provincial restrictions on indoor activities;
3. Direct staff to work with industry associations to explore altering or suspending
by-laws regulating the use of public space by businesses and organizations
should health order restrictions extend past April 19, 2021;
4. Direct the Mayor to request the Province to review, by the earliest possible date,
the decision to prohibit breweries, wineries, and tasting rooms not offering full-
meal service from offering patio service;
5. Direct the Mayor to reiterate Council’s request to the Province allowing
municipalities to lessen the tax burden on small businesses by enacting
legislation enabling “split assessment” and separating development potential
from existing use;
6. Direct the Mayor to request the Province to explore allowing municipalities to
lessen the tax burden on small business by enacting legislation enabling a small-
business property subclass and allowing municipalities to set different tax rates
on small, medium and large businesses;
7. Seek new and expanded support, including additional wage supports for
employees, from the Province and the Federal Government for businesses and
organizations impacted directly by new public health orders;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 22
8. Direct staff to report back with bylaw amendments to waive the annual fees for
regular patio/large patio permits for 2021, recognizing that due to COVID
restrictions closures and limited capacities were experienced by operators last
year, and will be again in 2021, with continued uncertainty due to the pandemic
and options to cover the associated revenue reduction;
9. Direct staff to allow existing windbreak walls for existing patios, and report back
on allowing windbreak walls for temporary and new patios, in order to increase
dining comfort and patio use so that patios can be seated in all weather, subject
to and based upon approval by Vancouver Fire and Rescue Service, recognizing
that Vancouver Coastal Health and WorkSafeBC also conduct inspections to
ensure health and safety; and
10. Direct staff to revisit the 2020-approved “Alcohol consumption in public spaces
pilot” to consider timely reactivation of the four pilot plazas as well as any new
locations that might equitably support both local food and drink services that
cannot otherwise provide patio spaces, and Vancouverites hoping to safely
socialize.
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Downtown Eastside Seniors Shuttle to Vaccines Centres
Councillor Kirby-Yung enquired if there is a way to advocate to the Province or Vancouver
Coastal Health, for the creation of a shuttle service to safely transport seniors living in the
Downtown Eastside (DTES) to vaccination centres. Councillor Kirby-Yung noted that in light of
recent anti-Asian crimes, this is an important service to offer especially for senior Chinese
residents of Chinatown. The Acting City Manager agreed to follow-up with Vancouver Coastal
Health.
2. Decade of Ecosystem Restoration
Councillor Wiebe enquired when staff will report back on the Council initiative “A Decade of
Ecosystem Restoration. The Acting City Manager agreed to follow-up with staff.
3. Update on Gastown Public Realm Plan
Councillor Wiebe enquired about the timeline for the Gastown Public Realm Plan, in particular
the update of Maple Tree Square. The Acting City Manager agreed to follow-up with staff.
4. General Manager’s Report
Councillor Wiebe enquired if it would be possible for the City to have a routine General
Manager’s Report, similar to the Park Board, as it could be a great opportunity to showcase and
lift up all the great work City staff is doing. The Acting City Manager agreed to follow-up with
staff.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 30, 2021 23
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 7:17 pm.
* * * * *