REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MARCH 10, 2021
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, March 10, 2021, at 9:34 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Committee meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law, Vancouver Charter and the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and
Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated
Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Councillor Adriane Carr, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business from 6 pm – 10 pm)
Councillor Christine Boyle* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business from 9:30 am to 11:30 am)
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick* (Leave of Absence for Personal
Reasons from 10 am – 12 pm and 9 pm – 10 pm)
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Vice-Chair
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe* (Leave of Absence for Civic
Business from 9:30 am – 10:30 am)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, Acting City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Item 3, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Boyle and Wiebe absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
1. Women’s Equity Strategy Updates and Next Steps
February 23, 2021
Paul Mochrie, Acting City Manager, Aftab Erfan, Chief Equity Officer, and Therese Boullard,
Equity Consultant, provided a presentation, and along with staff from Arts, Culture and
Community Services, Human Resources, and the City Clerk’s Office, responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 10:12 am, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee enter into a second round of questions to staff on Item 1 “Women’s
Equity Strategy Updates and Next Steps”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Boyle and Wiebe absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
* * * * *
The Committee heard from one speaker in support, and two speakers that spoke to other
aspects and considerations of the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council receive the Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “Women’s
Equity Strategy Updates and Next Steps”, for information.
B. THAT Council direct staff to implement the Women’s Equity Strategy Phase 2
Actions during 2021-2023 and report back annually on progress.
C. THAT Council direct staff to send the Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled
“Women’s Equity Strategy Updates and Next Steps”, to the Vancouver Board of
Parks and Recreation, Vancouver Public Library Board and Vancouver Police
Department Board for information.
amended

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 3
AMENDMENT MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the following be added as D:
THAT staff evaluate the occupancy and distribution of (i) city-owned social
housing units, (ii) housing units located on leased city land (such as co-ops), or
(iii) social housing units created through City policy (such as MIRHPP units),
using a gender and intersectional diversity lens and report back to Council with
results.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07074)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07075) with Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council receive the Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “Women’s
Equity Strategy Updates and Next Steps”, for information.
B. THAT Council direct staff to implement the Women’s Equity Strategy Phase 2
Actions during 2021-2023 and report back annually on progress.
C. THAT Council direct staff to send the Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled
“Women’s Equity Strategy Updates and Next Steps”, to the Vancouver Board of
Parks and Recreation, Vancouver Public Library Board and Vancouver Police
Department Board for information.
D. THAT staff evaluate the occupancy and distribution of (i) city-owned social
housing units, (ii) housing units located on leased city land (such as co-ops), or
(iii) social housing units created through City policy (such as MIRHPP units),
using a gender and intersectional diversity lens and report back to Council with
results.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 11:55 am and reconvened at 4:30 pm.
* * * * *
Following the recess, Deputy Mayor Wiebe assumed the role of Chair.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recess until after the dinner break due to technical difficulties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova, Kirby-Yung, Swanson and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 4
The Committee recessed at 4:32 pm and reconvened at 6:01 pm.
* * * * *
2. Issues Report: Consideration of Rezoning Proposals at 110 and 150 West 4th
Avenue
February 9, 2021
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design & Sustainability, introduced the item and
Hale Jones-Cox, Planner, Urban Design & Sustainability, provided a presentation, and along
with Murray McCutcheon, Vice President, Corporate Development (AbCellera), responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council instructs the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability to consider a rezoning application for the site at 110 West 4th
Avenue, which is within the Broadway Plan study area (015-518-949, Lot 8 Block
21 District Lot 200A Plan 197; 015-518-973, Lot 9 Block 21 District Lot 200A Plan
197; 015-519-023, Lot 10 Block 21 District Lot 200A Plan 197; 015-519-066, Lot
11 Block 21 District Lot 200A Plan 197; 015-519-155, Lot 12 Block 21 District Lot
200A Plan 197) which proposes a mixed industrial and office building at a height
and density above what is permitted in the I-1 District Schedule, as an exception
to the Broadway Plan Interim Rezoning Policy.
B. THAT Council instructs the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability to consider a rezoning application for the site at 150 West 4th
Avenue, which is within the Broadway Plan study area (031-128-360, Lot A Block
21 District Lot 200A Group 1 New Westminster District Plan EPP101475) which
proposes a mixed industrial and office buildings at a height and density above
what is permitted in the I-1 District Schedule, as an exception to the Broadway
Plan Interim Rezoning Policy.
C. THAT A and B above will in no way fetter Council’s discretion in considering any
rezoning applications for the subject sites and does not create any legal rights for
the applicants or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
expenditure of funds or incurred costs are at the risk of the person making the
expenditure or incurring the cost.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07077)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote due to Civic Business)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 5
3. 1566 Commercial Drive – 1174278 BC Ltd (“Bar Corso”) – Liquor Primary Liquor
Licence Application – Liquor Establishment Class 1
February 8, 2021
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council, having considered the opinion of area residents and business operators
as determined by neighbourhood notification, site sign, noise impacts and relevant
Council policy as outlined in the Report dated February 8, 2021, entitled “1566
Commercial Drive – 1174278 BC Ltd (“Bar Corso”) – Liquor Primary Liquor Licence
Application – Liquor Establishment Class 1”, endorse the application submitted by Rising
Tide Consultants on behalf of the applicant, 1174278 BC Ltd. (doing business as “Bar
Corso”), to operate a new Liquor Primary liquor licence, with an interior capacity of 45
persons (Liquor Establishment Class 1) via the conversion of the existing Food Primary
liquor licence (Restaurant Class 1), located at 1566 Commercial Drive, subject to:
i. A maximum interior capacity of 45 persons;
ii. Hours of operation limited to 9 am to 1 am, Sunday to Thursday; and 9 am to
2 am, Friday and Saturday;
iii. Food service to be available while the establishment is operating;
iv. A Time-Limited Development Permit;
v. An acoustic report to be submitted certifying that the establishment meets Noise
Control By-law requirements;
vi. Signing a Good Neighbour Agreement with the City prior to business licence
issuance; and
vii. The surrendering of the existing Food Primary liquor licence (#308633) at the
time of issuance of the new Liquor Primary liquor licence.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07076)
(Councillors Boyle and Wiebe absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
4. Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion 2021
February 24, 2021
Prior to the start of item 4, Councillor Wiebe declared conflict of interest on recommendation D
of the Report dated February 24, 2021, entitled “Approval of Business Improvement Area
Renewals and Expansion 2021”, due to being an owner of a business within the district of
Mount Pleasant.
The Committee heard from six speakers in support of the report recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the application of the Hastings Crossing Business
Association as described in the Report dated February 24, 2021, entitled
“Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion 2021”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services, in consultation
with the Director of Planning, to bring forward by-laws to re-establish the

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 6
Hastings Crossing Business Improvement Area (BIA), to establish a new funding
ceiling, and to remit monies for the business promotion scheme.
B. THAT Council approve the application of the Kerrisdale Business Association as
described in the Report dated February 24, 2021, entitled “Approval of Business
Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion 2021”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services, in consultation
with the Director of Planning, to bring forward by-laws to re-establish the
Kerrisdale BIA, to establish a new funding ceiling, and to remit monies for the
business promotion scheme.
C. THAT Council approve the application of the Kitsilano 4th Avenue Business
Association as described in the Report dated February 24, 2021, entitled
“Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion 2021”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services, in consultation
with the Director of Planning, to bring forward by-laws to re-establish the Kitsilano
4th Avenue BIA, to establish a new funding ceiling, and to remit monies for the
business promotion scheme.
D. THAT Council approve the application of the Mount Pleasant Commercial
Improvement Society as described in the Report dated February 24, 2021,
entitled “Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion
2021”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services, in consultation
with the Director of Planning, to bring forward by-laws to re-establish the Mount
Pleasant BIA, to establish a new funding ceiling, and to remit monies for the
business promotion scheme.
E. THAT Council approve the application of the West Broadway Business
Improvement Association as described in the Report dated February 24, 2021,
entitled “Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion
2021”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services, in consultation
with the Director of Planning, to bring forward by-laws to re-establish the West
Broadway BIA, to establish a new funding ceiling, and to remit monies for the
business promotion scheme.
F. THAT Council approve the application of the Davie Village Business
Improvement Association as described in the Report dated February 24, 2021,
entitled “Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion
2021”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services, in consultation
with the Director of Planning, to bring forward by-laws to re-establish the West
End BIA, to establish a new funding ceiling, and to remit monies for the business
promotion scheme.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 7
G. THAT Council approve the application of the Hastings North Business
Improvement Association (HNBIA) as described in the Report dated February 24,
2021, entitled “Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and
Expansion 2021”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services, in consultation
with the Director of Planning, to bring forward by-laws to expand the Hastings
North BIA by establishment of a separate expansion-area by-law and funding
ceiling, and to remit monies for the business promotion scheme.
carried
Prior to the vote, the Committee agreed to separate the components of the motion. The motion
was put with D having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07078) with Councillor Bligh absent
for the vote due to Civic Business and Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of
interest, and A, B, C, E, F and G, having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07080) with
Councillor Bligh absent for vote due to Civic Business.
5. Implementing the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in the City
of Vancouver (Member’s Motion B.2)
At the Council meeting on March 9, 2021, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on March 10, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers.
The Committee heard from twelve speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 8:36 pm and reconvened at 8:43 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver has made significant long-term commitments as a City of
Reconciliation, and has taken many steps to advance reconciliation. The City can
continue to deepen its commitment to reconciliation with measurable actions and
systemic change;
2. On February 26, 2013, Vancouver City Council passed a motion to endorse the
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples;
3. On June 24th, 2014, the City of Vancouver unanimously voted to acknowledge
that the city is on the unceded territory of the Musqueam, Squamish, and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 8
Tsleil-Waututh peoples who are the rights and titleholders in the City of
Vancouver;
4. The Metropolitan Area of Vancouver is home to nearly 60,000 urban Indigenous
peoples, as based on the 2016 Census. The third-largest municipal concentration
of Indigenous peoples in Canada;
5. As the City of Reconciliation, Vancouver has established formal working
relationships through Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) with the Musqueam
Indian Band and Squamish Nation, with discussion underway with the
Tsleil-Waututh Nation, alongside a MOU with the Metro Vancouver Aboriginal
Executive Council (MVAEC). These MOU’s have informed a number of projects
which have been reported on in the July 2, 2020 Reconciliation Update Work &
Efforts Report. Current projects and recommendations include Municipal
Indigenous Coordinators, Indigenous Design Principles, Indigenous Place
Naming, and support for Indigenous Language Revitalization;
6. The process of reconciliation is a long-term effort that takes seriously the
responsibility of creating systemic change and new relations based on mutual
understanding and respect;
7. The UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (“the Declaration”) was
adopted by the UN General Assembly on 13 September 2007, as a triumph for
justice and human dignity following more than two decades of negotiations
between governments and Indigenous peoples' representatives. Among many
significant components, UNDRIP:
a. Establishes a universal framework of minimum standards for the survival,
dignity, well-being and rights of the world's Indigenous peoples;
b. Addresses both individual and collective rights; cultural rights and identity;
rights to education, health, employment, language, and others;
c. And it outlaws discrimination against Indigenous peoples and promotes
their full and effective participation in all matters that concern them;
8. Rights & titleholders in the City of Vancouver are the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-waututh within the meaning of UNDRIP. The City of Vancouver, as a City
of Reconciliation, has the responsibility to recognize the rights and title of
Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-waututh;
9. Many Indigenous peoples have made the City of Vancouver their home and as
Indigenous peoples also have Indigenous rights within the meaning of UNDRIP.
The City of Vancouver has the responsibility to provide rights-based
programming and services to the urban Indigenous community which has made
Vancouver their home;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 9
10. The UN Declaration affirms:
a. Article 18: Indigenous peoples have the right to participate in decision-
making in matters which would affect their rights, through representatives
chosen by themselves in accordance with their own procedures, as well
as to maintain and develop their own indigenous decision-making
institutions;
b. Article 19: States shall consult and cooperate in good faith with the
indigenous peoples concerned through their own representative
institutions in order to obtain their free, prior and informed consent before
adopting and implementing legislative or administrative measures that
may affect them;
c. Article 23: Indigenous peoples have the right to determine and develop
priorities and strategies for exercising their right to development. In
particular indigenous peoples have the right to be actively involved in
developing and determining health, housing and other economic social
programs affecting them and, as far as possible, to administer such
programs through their own institutions;
11. Both the governments of Canada and British Columbia have endorsed the UN
Declaration without qualifications;
12. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) of Canada’s Ten Principles for
Reconciliation state that:
a. Call to Action #43: We call upon federal, provincial, territorial, and
municipal governments to fully adopt and implement the UN Declaration
as the framework for reconciliation;
b. Call to Action #47: We call upon federal, provincial, territorial, and
municipal governments to repudiate concepts used to justify European
sovereignty over Indigenous peoples and lands, such as the Doctrine of
Discovery and terra nullius, and to reform those laws, government
policies, and litigation strategies that continue to rely on such concepts;
13. In November 2019, British Columbia passed the Declaration on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples Act (DRIPA). DRIPA provides a framework for implementing
the Declaration by requiring the Province to work in consultation and cooperation
with Indigenous peoples to:
a. align all Provincial laws with the Declaration;
b. prepare and implement an action plan to achieve the objectives of the
Declaration;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 10
c. prepare an annual report outlining the progress that has been made
towards aligning Provincial law; and
d. Enabling mechanisms to negotiate and enter into an agreement with an
Indigenous governing body and the ability to seek a mandate to pursue
an agreement with an Indigenous governing body for the purposes of the
exercise of joint statutory power of decision.
14. The shift in Provincial law shows a refinement of focus from broad, but often
unspecific reconciliation efforts to specific recognition, affirmation, and
implementation of the inherent rights of Indigenous Peoples;
15. On November 4, 2020, the City of Montreal unveiled its Reconciliation Strategy
with Indigenous Peoples. Montreal’s plan includes a commitment to develop a
nation-to-nation relationship;
16. In July 2020 the City’s Urban Indigenous Peoples Advisory Committee (UIPAC)
issued a public letter calling for meaningful action on Anti-Racism and
Reconciliation by the Mayor, Council and Civic Departments, naming the need to
see more meaningful consultation and dialogue that results in real tangible action
and impact. UIPAC called for the implementation of UNDRIP at the City level in
2013; and
17. The Vancouver City Council can continue its work on reconciliation by working
with xʷməθkwəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), and səl ̓ ílwətaɬ
(Tsleil-Waututh) Nations and Urban Indigenous communities on implementation
of the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples as the next chapter in the
City’s reconciliation work.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council aspires to implement the UN
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) at a local government level in
the City of Vancouver, and recognizes the implementation of the UN Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples as the minimum standard for the survival, dignity,
well-being and rights of the Indigenous peoples;
FURTHER THAT Council establish a Type D Advisory Committee, referred to as a “Task
Force on Implementing UNDRIP in the City of Vancouver” to provide advice to the Mayor
and Council, with the terms of reference attached as Appendix A to the motion entitled
“Implementing the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in the City of
Vancouver (Member’s Motion B.2)”;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to seek Provincial and Federal participation
and support for this work, and to align Vancouver’s efforts to implement UNDRIP with
existing provincial law and emerging federal legislation.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07081)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 11
6. Solidarity with Indian Farmers (Member’s Motion B.3)
At the Council meeting on March 9, 2021, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on March 10, 2021, in order to hear from
speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support and three speakers opposed to the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Indian government made changes to the agricultural laws without consulting
the farmer’s organizations;
2. These changes, in the opinion of the farmers, severely negatively impact their
livelihood by:
a) Not granting minimum support price in the law;
b) Allowing traders to stockpile product to create shortages in the market
place to increase price to the consumer;
c) Having dispute resolution between farmers and corporations under
contract farmers handled by a committee rather than the judicial system;
3. A majority of Indian farmers are small farmers looking after less than 5 acres of
land. They decide what they want to plant to meet their family needs rather than
plant crops to fulfill corporate needs;
4. More than 60% of the Indian population relies on farming;
5. Due to high unemployment in the unskilled labour pool, the livelihood of families
displaced by these laws will be severely negatively impacted;
6. The suicide rates amongst Indian farmers show the current fragility of the
agriculture industry, which is battling the effects of climate change and massive
crop failures;
7. During the ongoing protest in New Delhi the government is depriving the
protesters of basic necessities and is violating their basic human rights;
8. Lending our voice to support India’s farmers would lend support for the principle
that in Canada and around the world local farmers are indispensable to the social
fabric of any country must be supported and protected; and
9. The BC Provincial Government has joined all major federal political parties in
speaking out against these legislative changes.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council stands in solidarity with
the Indian farmers and directs the Mayor to write to the provincial and federal
governments to ask them to continue to speak out against these laws as well as the

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 12
repressive measures against Indian citizens of their rights to expression and liberty, and
to accelerate the message of concern to the Indian government.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the motion be amended as follows:
• Insert the word “and” before the word “ask”;
• Remove the phrase “continue to speak out against these laws as well as the
repressive measures against”, and replace with the word “support”; and
• Remove the words “of their” and add an apostrophe at the end of the word
“citizens”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07082)
(Councillors Boyle and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillors Dominato and Hardwick absent for the vote)
* * * * *
At 9:50 pm, during discussions, it was
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the Committee extend the meeting past 10 pm, in order to complete
Item 6 “Solidarity with Indian Farmers (Member’s Motion B.3)”;
FURTHER THAT the Committee refer Item 7 - Understanding COVID-19 Recovery
through Economic and Cultural Stimulus Projects (Member’s Motion B.4), and Item 8 -
Don’t Feed the Wildlife, to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
meeting on March 31, 2021, in order to hear from speakers, debate and decision.
LOST HAVING NOT
RECEIVED REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
* * * * *
The referral motion having lost, due to time constraints, the balance of the agenda has been
deferred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services Meeting on Wednesday,
March 31, 2021.
For clarity, the Committee completed hearing from speakers on Item 6 “Solidarity with Indian
Farmers (Member’s Motion B.6)”, and is in debate and decision for this item. With Councillor
Fry’s amendment having carried, the next step is for the Committee to vote on the motion as
amended.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 13
The Committee adjourned at 9:55 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MARCH 10, 2021
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, March 10, 2021, at
9:56 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence for Civic Business
from 6 pm – 10 pm)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Colleen Hardwick (Leave of Absence for Personal
Reasons from 9 pm to 10 pm)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, Acting City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, March 10, 2021
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Women’s Equity Strategy Updates and Next Steps
2. Issues Report: Consideration of Rezoning Proposals at 110 and 150 West 4th Avenue
3. 1566 Commercial Drive – 1174278 BC Ltd (“Bar Corso”) - Liquor Primary Liquor Licence
Application - Liquor Establishment Class 1
4. Approval of Business Improvement Area Renewals and Expansion 2021
5. Implementing the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in the City of
Vancouver (Member's Motion B.2)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, March 10, 2021 2
Items 1 to 5
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of March 10, 2021, as contained in items 1 to 5, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 9:57 pm.
* * * * *