COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 9, 2021
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, March 9, 2021, at
9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial
Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, Acting City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 2
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to business
interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Auditor General Recruitment Committee – February 19, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Auditor General Recruitment Committee meeting of
February 19, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – February 10 and 18, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting of February 10 and 18, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Council – February 23, 2021
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of February 23, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 3
4. Court of Revision (BIA) – February 23, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Minutes of the Court of Revision (BIA) meeting of February 23, 2021, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Council (City Finance and Services) – February 24, 2021
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting of February 24, 2021, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council adopt Reports 2 and 4, and Referral Reports 1 to 4, and 8, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
At this point in the proceedings, Councillor Kirby-Yung declared a conflict of interest on
recommendation A-2 of Report 3 dated February 23, 2021, entitled “2021 Community Services
and Other Social Grants”, as a family member is the chair of S.U.C.C.E.S.S.
REPORTS
1. 2021 Property Taxation – Targeted Land Assessment Averaging
March 4, 2021
Patrice Impey, General Manger, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, along with
Grace Cheng, Director, Long-term Financial Strategy and Planning, Finance, Risk and Supply
Chain Management, provided an overview of the report and responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the application of targeted 5-year land
assessment averaging for the purpose of calculating property taxes for

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 4
Residential (Class 1), Light Industry (Class 5), and Business and Other (Class 6)
properties for 2021.
B. THAT, in addition to the standard exclusions as outlined in the annual Land
Assessment Averaging By-law, Council adopt a “threshold” of 10% above the
property class average change for Class 1 and for Classes 5 & 6 to define
eligibility for targeted averaging;
FURTHER THAT the 2021 property class average change for Class 1 and for
Classes 5 & 6 be finalized upon publication of the 2021 Revised Assessment Roll
in April 2021;
AND FURTHER THAT for properties that are eligible for targeted averaging, the
year-over-year change in values derived from the averaging formula for the
purpose of calculating property taxes not fall below the Council-adopted
“threshold”.
C. THAT properties impacted by a Director of Planning-initiated amendment to the
Zoning & Development By-law or an Official Development Plan be considered for
targeted averaging, in accordance with the criteria set out in the annual Land
Assessment Averaging By-law.
D. THAT properties whose owners sought additional density or a change in use from
Council through rezoning, whether enacted or not, or through Council-approved
policy changes, not be considered for targeted averaging.
E. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
be instructed to bring forward for enactment a by-law authorizing the use of
targeted 5-year land assessment averaging that reflects Council’s decision on A
to D above.
F. THAT, subject to adoption of any applicable by-laws, the Director of Finance
make appropriate arrangements with BC Assessment for the production of the
2021 Average Assessment Roll at an estimated cost of $25,000 plus applicable
taxes; source of funding to be the 2021 Operating Budget.
G. THAT Council direct the Director of Finance to continue engaging with the
Province to advance work on “Split Assessment through a Commercial
Sub-class” to address the taxation impact arising from unused development
potential on small businesses, non-profit, and arts and culture organizations in
underdeveloped properties.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 5
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as H:
THAT Council direct the Mayor to write to the Premier, Provincial Minister of
Municipal Affairs and Minister of Finance to advise of the City of Vancouver’s
determination not to utilize the Spring 2020 Interim Solution due to
implementation challenges and burden, such as difficulty in ensuring equity in
application, and of Vancouver’s preference for the enactment of applicable
legislation and/or regulations to enable Split Assessment through a Commercial
Sub-class as the most effective model to address the taxation burden resulting
from levying property tax on unrealized potential based on highest and best use.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07034)
The amendment having carried unanimously, the amended motion was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07035).
2. Annual Procurement Report 2020
February 11, 2021
THAT Council receive the Report dated February 11, 2021, entitled “Annual
Procurement Report 2020”, for information.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07052)
3. 2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants
February 23, 2021
Council heard from three speakers opposed to the recommendations.
Paul Mochrie, Acting City Manager, along with staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services
and Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services, responded to
questions.
During questions of staff, Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest on recommendation D
of the Report, as a family member volunteers on the board of Providing Advocacy Counselling
and Education Society (PACE).
The motion below contains changes to the original report recommendations and reflects a
modified recommendation A, to enable Councillor Kirby-Yung who declared conflict of interest to
be able to vote on the portion of A that she was not in conflict with.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 6
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A1. THAT Council approve 106 Direct Social Services Grants totalling $4,003,796,
including recommended conditions on the grants, to the Agencies listed in
Column 1 of Appendix A-1 of the Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “2021
Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the amounts recommended for
each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix A-1 of the same report. Source of funding
is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating budget.
A2. THAT Council approve one Direct Services Grant totaling $20,828, including
recommended conditions on the grant, to the United Chinese Community
Enrichment Services Society dba S.U.C.C.E.S.S., listed in Column 1 of
Appendix A-1 of the Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “2021 Community
Services and Other Social Grants”. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy
Grants Operating budget.
B. THAT Council approve 23 Organizational & Other Capacity Building Grants
totalling $770,853, including recommended conditions on the grants, to the
Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix B-1 of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, of the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix B-1 of the
same report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating
budget.
C. THAT Council approve 11 Neighbourhood Organization Grants totalling
$1,062,511 to the Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix C of the Report dated
February 23, 2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”,
in the amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix C of
same report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating
budget.
D. THAT Council approve 13 Indigenous Healing and Wellness Grants totalling
$220,000 to the Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix D-1 of the Report dated
February 23, 2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”,
in the amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix D-1 of
the same report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating
budget.
E. THAT Council approve 13 Sustainable Food Systems grants totalling $201,425 to
the Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix E of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix E of the same
report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating budget.
F. THAT Council approve three Rent Subsidy Grants totalling $94,400 to the
Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix F of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix F of the same
report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating budget.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 7
G. THAT Council approve one grant totalling $150,000 to Eastside Movement for
Business and Economic Renewal Society (EMBERS) to operate a low barrier
employment and income generation hub in the Downtown Eastside. Source of
funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating Budget.
H. THAT Council approve six Hastings Legacy Fund grants totalling $90,000 to the
Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix G of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix G of the same
report. Source of funding: Hastings Social Responsibility Reserve.
I. THAT Council authorize 44 Childcare Enhancement Grants totalling $995,572,
including recommended conditions on the grants, to the Agencies listed in
Column 1 of Appendix H-1 of the Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “2021
Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the amounts recommended for
each Agency in Column 3 of Appendix H-1 of the same report. Source of funding
is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating budget - Childcare.
J. THAT Council approve two Childcare Administration Grants totalling $376,000 to
the Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix I of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix I of the same
report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating budget -
Childcare.
K. THAT Council approve one Neighbourhood Access Grant (NAG) totalling
$60,000 to the YMCA of Greater Vancouver to guarantee that a minimum of 24 of
the total 74 licensed spaces at the new Gastown Parkades Childcare Centres be
accessible at no cost to families receiving the full BC Affordable Childcare Benefit
(ACB). Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating budget -
Childcare.
L. THAT Council approve one grant of $150,000 to Streetohome Foundation for
2021. Source of funding is the 2021 ACCS Operating Budget.
M. THAT Council approve two COVID Recovery grants totalling $55,000 to the
Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix J of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix J of the same
report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating Budget.
N. THAT Council approve three School Food Program grants totalling $474,280 to
the Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix K of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix K of the same
report. Source of funding is the 2021 Social Policy Grants Operating Budget.
O. THAT Council approve seven Greenest City Grants totalling $276,065 to the
Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix L-1 of the Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”, in the

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 8
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix L-1 of the
same report. Source of funding is the 2021 Other Grants - Greenest City Grants
Budget.
P. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization that is listed in Appendices A to J of the Report dated
February 23, 2021, entitled “2021 Community Services and Other Social Grants”,
or named in G, L and O above that is not a registered charity with the Canada
Revenue Agency, to be an organization contributing to the health or welfare of
the City.
Q. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate and execute agreements to disperse the grants described
in A to O above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such other terms
and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts, Culture and
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services.
R. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services and the Director of Legal Services to include the following conditions in
any grant agreements with the Agencies mentioned in A-E, H-J, and N above:
• each Agency must use its grant for the benefit of the same members of
the community that the original grant conditions required (the “Target
Community”), but each Agency may use its grant for the additional
purposes of:
supporting its Target Community in mitigating or preventing the
o
transmission of SARS-COV-2 or in assisting any member of the
Target Community who contracts COVID-19 (the “Repurpose”);
and
protecting the health of its employees and volunteers as they carry
o
out the work of their Agency.
S. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A through O above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
Council agreed to sever the vote on the components of the motion. The motion was put with A-2
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07036) with Councillor Kirby-Yung ineligible for the vote
due to conflict of interest, D CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07037) with Councillor Wiebe
ineligible fo the vote due to conflict of interest, and A-1, B, C and E to S CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07038).
Note: A to R were all approved by the required majority.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 9
4. 2021 Renter Services Grants
February 25, 2021
A. THAT Council approve eleven (11) Renter Services Grants totalling $500,000,
including recommended conditions on the grants, to the Agencies listed in
Column 1 of Appendix A of the Report dated February 25, 2021, entitled “2021
Renter Services Grants”, in the amounts recommended for each Agency in
Column 3 of Appendix A of the same report. Source of funding is the 2021
Affordable Housing Operating Budget (Empty Homes Tax Allocation).
B. THAT Council approve one (1) SRO Revitalization Grant totalling $75,000,
including recommended conditions on the grant, to the Downtown Eastside SRO
Collaborative Society. Source of funding is the 2021 Capital Budget - SRO
Upgrade Granting Program.
C. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization that is to receive a grant pursuant to A and B above, and is
listed in Appendix A of the Report dated February 25, 2021, entitled “2021 Renter
Services Grants”, which is not a registered charity with Canada Revenue Agency,
to be an organization contributing to the health and welfare of the City.
D. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate and execute agreements to disperse the grants described
in A through C above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such other
terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts, Culture
and Community Services and the Director of Legal Services.
E. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A through C above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A and B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No.07053)
REFERRAL REPORTS
1. Sign By-law Amendment: 688 Hamilton Street
February 2, 2021
A. THAT the application by Permit Masters on behalf of the City of Vancouver, the
registered owners, of a building having a civic address of 688 Hamilton Street
(PID: 011-641-479, Block 47 District Lot 541 Plan 21824) to amend the Sign
By-law to allow one new free-standing electronic static image sign at Cambie
Street and to replace three free-standing electronic static image signs at West
Georgia Street, Hamilton Street and Dunsmuir Street, be referred to public
hearing, together with:

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 10
(i) draft by-law amendments generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated February 2, 2021, entitled “Sign By-law
Amendment: 688 Hamilton Street”; and
(ii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report, for consideration at public hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law amending the Sign By-law and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
amending the Sign By-law are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07055)
2. Miscellaneous Amendments to Various CD-1 By-laws
February 23, 2021
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make an application to:
(i) amend CD-1 (758) By-law No. 12869 for 1956-1990 Stainsbury Avenue to
correct an inconsistency in the computation of floor area, and to correct
the maximum building height, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated February 23 2021, entitled “Miscellaneous
Amendments to Various CD-1 By-laws”.
(ii) amend CD-1 (743) By-law No. 12675 for 3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue to
correct map labelling, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
above-noted report;
(iii) amend Schedule A of Sign By-law No. 11879 by adding CD-1 (521)
By-law No. 10413 for 7299 Granville Street, generally as presented in
Appendix B of the above-noted report; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 11
(iv) amend CD-1 (620) By-law No. 11374 for 1412-1424 East 41st Avenue to
permit a wider range of commercial uses, creating consistency with more
recently approved and comparable CD-1 by-laws.
and that the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
amending by-laws, generally in accordance with the respective appendices, for
consideration at Public Hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07056)
3. CD-1 Text Amendment: 1280 Burrard Street (Formerly 1262-1290 Burrard Street)
February 23, 2021
A. THAT the application by Reliance Properties Ltd., on behalf of 0785687 B.C. Ltd.,
Reliance Properties Ltd., and Reliance Properties (Burrard) Ltd., the registered
owners of the lands located at 1280 Burrard Street (formerly 1262-1290 Burrard
Street) [PID 029-416-124; Lot F, Block 100, District Lot 541, Group 1, New
Westminster District Plan EPP44004] to amend the text of CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District (587) By-law No. 11106 to alter the land use provisions
under Section 2.2, be referred to Public Hearing, together with:
(i) draft CD-1 By-law amendments, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Referral Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 1280 Burrard Street (Formerly 1262-1290 Burrard Street)”;
and
(ii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle, subject to the
Conditions of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted
report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 12
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07057)
4. Rezoning: 4825 Laurel Street
February 23, 2021
A. THAT the application by Rafat Sobouti, the registered owner of the lands located
at 4825 Laurel Street [PID: 010-659-412; Lot 15, Block 816, District Lot 526, Plan
7334] from RS-1 (Single-detached Houses and Duplexes) District to RM-8A
(Multiple Dwelling) District, be referred to a Public Hearing, and together with the
recommendations of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability to approve the application in principle, subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the Referral Report dated February 23,
2021, entitled “Rezoning: 4825 Laurel Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, subject to approval of the zoning by-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
February 23, 2021, entitled “Rezoning: 4825 Laurel Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the zoning
by-law.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07059)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 13
5. CD-1 Rezoning: 325-341 West 42nd Avenue
February 23, 2021
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT the application by Marcon Properties Ltd. on behalf of Wei Chun Wu,
Thomas and Margaret Wong, and William and Barbara Marshall, the registered
owners of the lands located at 325-341 West 42nd Avenue [Lots 20-22, Block
858, District Lot 526 Plan 7737; PIDs: 008-275-807, 010-336-583, and 010-336-
591 respectively], to rezone the lands from RS-1 (Residential) District to
CD-1 Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the maximum floor
space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 6.84 and the maximum building height from
10.7 m (35 ft.) to 56.3 m (185 ft.) and to 60.3 m (198 ft.) for the portion with
rooftop amenity, to permit the development of an 18-storey residential building
with a four-storey podium, consisting of approximately 215 secured rental
residential units of which 20% of the residential floor area (approximately 40
residential units) would be secured as below-market rental units, be referred to
Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by Rositch Hemphill Architects, received June 8, 2020;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
325-341 West 42nd Avenue”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle, including
approval in principle of the form of development, subject to the Conditions
of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the rezoning and the
Housing Agreement described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report
dated February 23, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 325-341 West 42nd Avenue”,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject
to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director
of Legal Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability.
C. THAT, subject to the approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
February 23, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 325-341 West 42nd Avenue”;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 14
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the new
CD-1 By-law.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
Applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07039)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
6. Amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law to Increase Social Housing
in the RM-4 and RM-3A Zoning Districts
March 1, 2021
Housing Policy – Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make an application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law
to allow development of up to six stories in the RM-3A and the RM-4 and RM-4N
zoning districts where 100% of the residential floor area is developed as social
housing, or social housing in conjunction with a child day care facility;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to public hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally as set out in Appendix A of the Referral
Report dated March 1, 2021, entitled “Amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law to Increase Social Housing in the RM-4 and RM-3A Zoning
Districts”, for consideration at public hearing.
B. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 15
Sustainability be instructed to bring forward for Council’s consideration amended
RM-3A, RM-4, and RM-4N Guidelines for Social Housing, generally as set out in
Appendix B of the Referral Report dated March 1, 2021, entitled “Amendments to
the Zoning and Development By-law to Increase Social Housing in the RM-4 and
RM-3A Zoning Districts”.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07040)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe abstained from the vote)
7. CD-1 Rezoning: 485 West 28th Avenue
February 23, 2021
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
A. THAT the application by Giant Union Design Architecture and Planning Ltd., on
behalf of 1098428 BC Ltd., the registered owner of the lands located at
485 West 28th Avenue [PID 010-869-662; Lot 4 Block 721 District Lot 526 Plan
6539] to rezone the lands from RS-1 (Residential) to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) district to increase the maximum floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.7
to 2.54 and the building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 21.0 m (69 ft.) and to
24.0 m (79 ft.) for the portion with rooftop amenity, to permit the development of a
six-storey building containing 27 strata-titled residential units, be referred to a
Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by Giant Union Design Architecture and Planning Ltd.
received June 8, 2020;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as set out in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated February 23, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 485
West 28th Avenue”; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 16
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle, including
approval in principle of the form of development, subject to the Conditions
of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the draft
CD-1 By-law, generally as set out in Appendix A of the above-noted report, for
consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
February 23, 2021, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 485 West 28th Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07041)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
8. CD-1 Rezoning: 1616-1698 West Georgia Street
March 1, 2021
A. THAT the application by Anthem Properties, on behalf of Anthem 1698 West
Georgia Developments Ltd., the registered owner of the lands located at
1698 West Georgia Street [PID 018-886-124; Lot M Block 55 District Lot 185
Plan LMP18253], of Jim Pattison Industries Ltd., the registered owner of the
lands located at 1670 West Georgia Street [PID 008-800-120; Lot B (Explanatory
Plan 2559) of Lots 5 and 6 Block 55 District Lot 185 Plan 92] and of Alberni
Street Holdings Ltd., the registered owner of Lot A of 1616 West Georgia Street
[PID 005-444-853; Lot A (Reference Plan 1653) of Lots 5 and 6 Block 55 District
Lot 185 Plan 92] to rezone a consolidation of 1698 West Georgia Street with

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 17
subdivided portions of 1670 West Georgia Street and Lot A of 1616 West Georgia
Street from RM-6 (Residential) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District to increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.50 to 9.39 and
the building height from 64.0 m to 99.3 m to permit the development of a
33-storey residential building with 127 strata-titled units, be referred to a Public
Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by Chris Dikeakos Architects, received December 21,
2018;
(ii) draft CD-1 by-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated March 1, 2021, entitled CD-1 Rezoning: 1616-1698
West Georgia Street”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle including a
deviation and exception to the existing CAC Policy as it relates to CAC
deferral, and including approval in principle of the form of development,
subject to the conditions of approval contained in Appendix B of the
above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if the rezoning application is referred to Public Hearing, a consequential
amendment to Schedule E of the Zoning and Development By-law regarding
building lines also be referred to the same Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary by-law generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Referral Report
dated March 1, 2021, entitled CD-1 Rezoning: 1616-1698 West Georgia Street”
for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City, and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 18
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 07060)
BY-LAWS
Councillors Boyle, Fry, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart advised they had reviewed the proceedings
related to by-law 1, and would therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Wiebe advised he had reviewed the proceedings related to by-law 2, and would
therefore be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council, enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 6 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 6,
entitled “A By-law to amend Street Name By-law No. 4054 regarding the naming of a
new street in the new St. Paul’s Hospital Development (Nora Hendrix Way)”, back to
staff for further community engagement.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07042)
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council, enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 2 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07044)
(Councillor Hardwick and Swanson opposed)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 19
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1, 3 to 5 and 7 to 9 inclusive,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law to rezone an area to CD-1 re: 4495
Camosun Street (formerly 4175 West 29th Avenue) (By-law No. 12913)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
2. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law to rezone an area to CD-1 re: 3680
East Hastings Street (By-law No.12914)
3. A By-law to amend CD-1 (566) By-law No. 10941 regarding miscellaneous amendments
(By-law No. 12915)
4. A By-law to amend East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan By-law No. 9393
regarding miscellaneous amendments (By-law No. 12916)
Subject to the approval of By-law 3
5. A By-law to amend Street Name By-law No. 4054 regarding the naming of new streets
and street extensions in the new St. Paul’s Hospital Development (Gore Avenue and
National Avenue) (By-law No. 12917)
6. A By-law to amend Street Name By-law No. 4054 regarding the naming of a new street
in the new St. Paul’s Hospital Development (Nora Hendrix Way) - REFERRED
7. A By-law to amend Street Name By-law No. 4054 regarding the naming of new streets
and street extensions in the Pearson Dogwood Development (Jeanette Street and West
58th Avenue) (By-law No. 12918)
8. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3235 – 3261 Clive Avenue
(By-law No. 12919)
9. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 4185 Main Street (By-law No. 12920)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 20
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development - 3435 East Hastings Street
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 3435 East Hastings
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2020-00196, prepared by Cornerstone Architecture, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on September 15, 2020, provided
that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED (Vote No. 07046)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
2. Approval of Form of Development – 4495 Camosun Street (Previously 4175 West
29th Avenue)
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 4495 Camosun
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2018-01146, prepared by IBI Group Architects (Canada) Inc., and stamped
“Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on August 28, 2020,
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design
changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or
adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on September 29, 2021, November 17, 2021, and December 15, 2021, all from
3:30 pm to 5:30 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07061)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 21
2. Implementing the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in the
City of Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver has made significant long-term commitments as a City of
Reconciliation, and has taken many steps to advance reconciliation. The City can
continue to deepen its commitment to reconciliation with measurable actions and
systemic change;
2. On February 26, 2013, Vancouver City Council passed a motion to endorse the
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples;
3. On June 24th, 2014, the City of Vancouver unanimously voted to acknowledge
that the city is on the unceded territory of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh peoples who are the rights and titleholders in the City of
Vancouver;
4. The Metropolitan Area of Vancouver is home to nearly 60,000 urban Indigenous
peoples, as based on the 2016 Census. The third-largest municipal concentration
of Indigenous peoples in Canada;
5. As the City of Reconciliation, Vancouver has established formal working
relationships through Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) with the Musqueam
Indian Band and Squamish Nation, with discussion underway with the
Tsleil-Waututh Nation, alongside a MOU with the Metro Vancouver Aboriginal
Executive Council (MVAEC). These MOU’s have informed a number of projects
which have been reported on in the July 2, 2020 Reconciliation Update Work &
Efforts Report. Current projects and recommendations include Municipal
Indigenous Coordinators, Indigenous Design Principles, Indigenous Place
Naming, and support for Indigenous Language Revitalization;
6. The process of reconciliation is a long-term effort that takes seriously the
responsibility of creating systemic change and new relations based on mutual
understanding and respect;
7. The UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (“the Declaration”) was
adopted by the UN General Assembly on 13 September 2007, as a triumph for
justice and human dignity following more than two decades of negotiations
between governments and Indigenous peoples' representatives. Among many
significant components, UNDRIP:
a. Establishes a universal framework of minimum standards for the survival,
dignity, well-being and rights of the world's Indigenous peoples;
b. Addresses both individual and collective rights; cultural rights and identity;
rights to education, health, employment, language, and others;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 22
c. And it outlaws discrimination against Indigenous peoples and promotes
their full and effective participation in all matters that concern them;
8. Rights & titleholders in the City of Vancouver are the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-waututh within the meaning of UNDRIP. The City of Vancouver, as a City
of Reconciliation, has the responsibility to recognize the rights and title of
Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-waututh;
9. Many Indigenous peoples have made the City of Vancouver their home and as
Indigenous peoples also have Indigenous rights within the meaning of UNDRIP.
The City of Vancouver has the responsibility to provide rights-based
programming and services to the urban Indigenous community which has made
Vancouver their home;
10. The UN Declaration affirms:
a. Article 18: Indigenous peoples have the right to participate in decision-
making in matters which would affect their rights, through representatives
chosen by themselves in accordance with their own procedures, as well
as to maintain and develop their own indigenous decision-making
institutions;
b. Article 19: States shall consult and cooperate in good faith with the
indigenous peoples concerned through their own representative
institutions in order to obtain their free, prior and informed consent before
adopting and implementing legislative or administrative measures that
may affect them;
c. Article 23: Indigenous peoples have the right to determine and develop
priorities and strategies for exercising their right to development. In
particular indigenous peoples have the right to be actively involved in
developing and determining health, housing and other economic social
programs affecting them and, as far as possible, to administer such
programs through their own institutions;
11. Both the governments of Canada and British Columbia have endorsed the UN
Declaration without qualifications;
12. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) of Canada’s Ten Principles for
Reconciliation state that:
a. Call to Action #43: We call upon federal, provincial, territorial, and
municipal governments to fully adopt and implement the UN Declaration
as the framework for reconciliation;
b. Call to Action #47: We call upon federal, provincial, territorial, and
municipal governments to repudiate concepts used to justify European
sovereignty over Indigenous peoples and lands, such as the Doctrine of
Discovery and terra nullius, and to reform those laws, government
policies, and litigation strategies that continue to rely on such concepts;
13. In November 2019, British Columbia passed the Declaration on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples Act (DRIPA). DRIPA provides a framework for implementing

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 23
the Declaration by requiring the Province to work in consultation and cooperation
with Indigenous peoples to:
a. align all Provincial laws with the Declaration;
b. prepare and implement an action plan to achieve the objectives of the
Declaration
c. prepare an annual report outlining the progress that has been made
towards aligning Provincial law; and
d. Enabling mechanisms to negotiate and enter into an agreement with an
Indigenous governing body and the ability to seek a mandate to pursue
an agreement with an Indigenous governing body for the purposes of the
exercise of joint statutory power of decision;
14. The shift in Provincial law shows a refinement of focus from broad, but often
unspecific reconciliation efforts to specific recognition, affirmation, and
implementation of the inherent rights of Indigenous Peoples;
15. On November 4, 2020, the City of Montreal unveiled its Reconciliation Strategy
with Indigenous Peoples. Montreal’s plan includes a commitment to develop a
nation-to-nation relationship;
16. In July 2020 the City’s Urban Indigenous Peoples Advisory Committee (UIPAC)
issued a public letter calling for meaningful action on Anti-Racism and
Reconciliation by the Mayor, Council and Civic Departments, naming the need to
see more meaningful consultation and dialogue that results in real tangible action
and impact. UIPAC called for the implementation of UNDRIP at the City level in
2013;
17. The Vancouver City Council can continue its work on reconciliation by working
with xʷməθkwəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), and səl ̓ ílwətaɬ
(Tsleil-Waututh) Nations and Urban Indigenous communities on implementation
of the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples as the next chapter in the
City’s reconciliation work.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council aspires to implement the UN
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) at a local government level in
the City of Vancouver, and recognizes the implementation of the UN Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples as the minimum standard for the survival, dignity,
well-being and rights of the Indigenous peoples;
FURTHER THAT Council establish a Type D Advisory Committee, referred to as a “Task
Force on Implementing UNDRIP in the City of Vancouver” to provide advice to the Mayor
and Council, with the terms of reference attached as Appendix A of the motion entitled
“Implementing the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in the
City of Vancouver”;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 24
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to seek Provincial and Federal participation
and support for this work, and to align Vancouver’s efforts to implement UNDRIP with
existing provincial law and emerging federal legislation.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Motion B2, entitled “Implementing the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
Peoples in the City of Vancouver”, be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, March 10, 2021, to hear from speakers,
debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Solidarity with Indian Farmers
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. The Indian government made changes to the agricultural laws without consulting
the farmer’s organizations;
2. These changes, in the opinion of the farmers, severely negatively impact their
livelihood by:
a) Not granting minimum support price in the law;
b) Allowing traders to stockpile product to create shortages in the market
place to increase price to the consumer;
c) Having dispute resolution between farmers and corporations under
contract farmers handled by a committee rather than the judicial system;
3. A majority of Indian farmers are small farmers looking after less than 5 acres of
land. They decide what they want to plant to meet their family needs rather than
plant crops to fulfill corporate needs;
4. More than 60% of the Indian population relies on farming;
5. Due to high unemployment in the unskilled labour pool, the livelihood of families
displaced by these laws will be severely negatively impacted;
6. The suicide rates amongst Indian farmers show the current fragility of the
agriculture industry, which is battling the effects of climate change and massive
crop failures;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 25
7. During the ongoing protest in New Delhi the government is depriving the
protesters of basic necessities and is violating their basic human rights;
8. Lending our voice to support India’s farmers would lend support for the principle
that in Canada and around the world local farmers are indispensable to the social
fabric of any country must be supported and protected; and
9. The BC Provincial Government has joined all major federal political parties in
speaking out against these legislative changes.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council stands in solidarity with
the Indian farmers and directs the Mayor to write to the provincial and federal
governments to ask them to continue to speak out against these laws as well as the
repressive measures against Indian citizens of their rights to expression and liberty, and
to accelerate the message of concern to the Indian government.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Motion B3, entitled “Solidarity with Indian Farmers”, be referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, March 10, 2021, to
hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Understanding COVID-19 Recovery Through Economic and Cultural Stimulus
Projects
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
WHEREAS
1. Economic decline in 2020 in BC real GDP growth was negative six percent
(-6.0%);
2. COVID-19 has adversely impacted Vancouver’s economy and dramatically
increased local unemployment rates with an estimated 32,000 jobs lost since
February 2020 – many of which are in the construction industry;
3. The unemployment rate in BC is forecast to remain high at 6.8% in BC in 2021
according to the Business Council of BC;
4. Employment and revenue has dropped notably in the arts and cultural sector
which has been one of the hardest hit due to the closure of performance venues
and COVID safety restrictions; specific segments of the retail trade have also
suffered;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 26
5. Vancouver’s Culture|Shift plan and vision for arts, culture and creativity sets
Vancouver’s first arts and cultural space targets including a goal for 800,000
square feet of new, repurposed or expanded, affordable City-owned, non-profit
and private space over the next ten years;
6. Vancouver City Council’s COVID-19 Recovery Committee report identifies
economic recovery as a priority recovery theme;
7. As is the case with accelerating affordable and rental housing construction, the
construction of commercial and cultural revitalization projects, including
expanded cultural space projects, could have an equally positive impact on
Vancouver’s COVID-19 recovery and would present similar opportunities to
assist with the creation of a “new, better ‘normal’” for our city;
8. Information relevant to the construction of new commercial projects and new or
revitalized cultural projects, including expanded cultural space, has direct impact
on the speed and strength of Vancouver’s COVID-19 economic recovery;
9. Private and non-profit entities may have potentially submitted proposals that do
not fall under established rezoning enabling policy that may help to meet
unemployment challenges and contribute to the creation of a “new, better
‘normal’” for our city;
10. Obtaining information with respect to new commercial and new or cultural
revitalization projects, including new or expanded cultural space, is needed for
council to properly assess opportunities for economic and cultural stimulus in our
city and how these projects might positively impact Vancouver’s COVID-19
recovery.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a memo (and attached Excel
searchable and sortable pre-application list), prepared in accordance with the
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act, identifying potential
commercial projects and new cultural or cultural revitalization projects, including
new or expanded cultural space, for all letters of enquiry, pre-enquiries and
informal expressions of interest (excluding those projects for which established
rezoning-enabling policy currently applies) by the end of Q1 2021 (or as soon as
possible) and to be updated quarterly;
FURTHER THAT such information would include:
1. Project proponent
2. Project address
3. Pre-application enquiry type (i.e. LOE, pre-enquiry, informal EOI)
4. Submission date

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 27
5. Approximate number of buildings included in proposed project
6. Proposed office, industrial or retail square footage
7. Proposed rehearsal, production or performance/show space square
footage
8. Associated economic activity including project value, number of
construction jobs, number office jobs, number cultural jobs, number
industrial jobs, retail spend, cultural spend, etc. as applicable
9. Paying-for-growth opportunities:
a. Fixed rate CAC (Yes/No/Don’t Know)
b. Negotiated CAC (Yes/No/Don’t Know)
c. DCLs and UDCLS (Yes/No/Don’t Know)
d. In-Kind or other community benefits (Yes/No/Don’t Know)
B. THAT Council acknowledge that the above-referenced information is likely
confidential and proprietary and therefore is likely to be provided only In Camera,
and therefore not available for posting or communication to the public.
C. THAT staff advise what data on an individual project basis or in aggregate may
be made public from the provided information.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Motion B4, entitled “Understanding COVID-19 Recovery Through Economic and
Cultural Stimulus Projects”, be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, March 10, 2021, to hear from speakers,
debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. UBCM Resolution – Local Choice: Tools to Improve Representation in Local
Government Elections
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. On February 10th, 2021, Council voted in support of the following direction:
THAT Council direct the Mayor to write to BC’s new Minister of Municipal Affairs
and the Attorney General to request that the Province of British Columbia create
“Local Choice” legislation that grants municipalities the power to consider,

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 28
choose and adopt more inclusive voting systems as a means of improving
representation and racial diversity on Council in future elections;
2. Vancouver's municipal elections have historically seen low levels of engagement
and inadequate representation of Black, Indigenous and People of Colour
residents, women, and renters, due to various intersecting barriers to
participation and representation;
3. The City of Vancouver has a highly diverse population, with people from
racialized communities constituting more than half of the City’s population. While
this term Vancouver elected a majority of women to Council for the first time, the
city’s racial diversity has never been well reflected in the composition of
Vancouver City Council;
4. Greater diversity on Council would mean that people from Indigenous, South
Asian, East Asian, Black, and other communities of colour would be better
represented, allowing more residents to see themselves around the table,
resulting in more trust in decisions being made, and better policy outcomes;
5. There are a variety of voting systems that have been shown to elect more
representative proportions of people from racialized and underrepresented
communities. These results have been observed in San Francisco, New York
City, and Cambridge, MA, New Zealand, and several European countries. More
inclusive voting systems are also associated with nearly 10% higher rates of
women being elected to public office, on average, than winner-take-all systems
such as our current At Large Block Voting system and the First-Past-the-Post
system;
6. Major cities across North America have recently modernized their voting system
in an effort to increase participation and diversity. These cities include London
(ON), Minneapolis, and New York City;
7. Vancouver should be proactive in exploring more inclusive voting systems, not
only to include a diverse range of voices in the city but also to reaffirm our
commitment to democratic institutions as a whole. Representation in government
is an essential cornerstone of democracy and is more important than ever;
8. Numerous jurisdictions in the United States have been required by the courts to
dismantle At Large Block Voting systems due to their discriminatory effects on
racialized communities (particularly African-American and Hispanic populations),
which were found to violate fairness and equal treatment provisions of the Voting
Rights Act, and replace them with more inclusive voting systems;
9. More inclusive voting systems have demonstrated improved turnout in local
elections, attributed both to reducing voters’ feeling that their votes are wasted
and increasing parties’ incentives to mobilize their supporters;
10. Justice Thomas Berger recommended in his 2004 Vancouver Electoral Reform
Commission report that “Council seek amendment of the Vancouver Charter to
permit elections to be conducted using systems of proportional representation.”

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 29
Vancouver City Council unanimously approved resolutions endorsing Justice
Berger’s recommendation, and in 2005, 2010 and 2012 requested that the
Province grant the municipality authority to determine its electoral system.
Previous provincial governments have declined to act upon all such requests to
date;
11. In 2017, Vancouver’s Independent Election Task Force recommended pursuing
electoral reform in Vancouver, in order to more accurately reflect the political
preferences of Vancouver voters and to promote greater representational
diversity. The Task Force noted that the present electoral system frequently
leaves certain ethnic groups and neighbourhoods unrepresented and half or
more of the voters significantly under-represented (or completely unrepresented)
on Council;
12. In 2016, Ontario became the first province in Canada to allow local councils to
modernize their elections with Bill 181, The Municipal Election Modernization Act,
which offered cities the option of using a ranked ballot. When London switched
to ranked ballots in 2018, they saw immediate results with increased voter
choice, more diversity on Council and a stronger mandate from voters;
13. The 2014 Report of the City of Vancouver’s Engaged City Task Force and the
2017 Report of the City’s Independent Election Task Force recommended
allowing permanent residents to vote in municipal elections. This call was
endorsed by Vancouver Council in 2018, and has also been endorsed by
Councils in Port Moody, New Westminster, Victoria, Esquimalt, Colwood, Prince
Rupert, Port Edward, Kitimat and Terrace. In 2019 the Union of BC Municipalities
(UBCM) endorsed a resolution asking the Province to make the necessary
changes to allow permanent residents to vote in local elections;
14. In 2019, the Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) endorsed a resolution calling on
the province to revise the minimum voting age in local government elections to
16 years of age. That resolution has also been endorsed at conventions of both
the BC NDP and the BC Green Party, along with the BC Teachers Federation;
15. There is no one-size-fits-all solution for local elections. Each municipality in BC
has unique challenges, history, size and demographics. Local councils are best
positioned to tailor their local election system and rules to respond to local issues
and needs. By providing tools and options, the Province would be opening the
doors to positive change and modernization.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following resolution be submitted to LMLGA
for submission as a 2021 UBCM Resolution, and titled: “Local Choice: Tools to Improve
Representation in Local Government Elections”
WHEREAS Local government elections in British Columbia typically see low
levels of engagement, and result in inadequate representation of Indigenous,
Black, and People of Colour residents, women, and renters. More inclusive
voting systems could strengthen local democracy and produce fairer and
more representative election outcomes.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 30
AND WHEREAS there is no one-size-fits-all solution for local elections. Each
municipality in BC has unique challenges, history, size and demographics. Local
councils are best positioned to tailor their local election system and rules to
respond to local issues and needs. By providing tools and options, the Province
would be opening the doors to positive change and modernization.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the UBCM Executive write to BC’s
Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Attorney General to request that the
Province of British Columbia create legislation that grants municipalities the
power to consider, choose and adopt more inclusive voting systems as a means
of improving representation and racial diversity on Council in future elections.
carried
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council deal with Motion B5, entitled “UBCM Resolution – Local Choice: Tools to
Improve Representation in Local Government Elections”, today in order to meet the
deadline for submission of resolutions to the Union of BC Municipalities.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07048)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung abstained from the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
FURTHER THAT the City of Vancouver implement wards as specified in the Berger
Report, for the 2022 election only, while continuing to explore improvements to the
voting system to be implemented in future elections as soon as allowed.
not put
The Mayor ruled the amendment out of order as the amendment is out of scope of the motion
on the floor and would be better suited to go forward as a separate motion.
The amendment having been ruled out of order, the motion was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 07049) with Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:59 am and reconvened at 3:12 pm.
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 31
6. Don’t Feed the Wildlife
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver enjoys proximity to a spectacular natural environment
with an abundance of natural wildlife species that coexist within our urban
ecosystem, including: bald eagles, bats, beavers, coyotes, harbour seals, otters,
raccoons, skunks, squirrels, and a variety of birds;
2. Wild animals in the urban ecosystem often engage in opportunistic feeding, the
taking of food without marked preferences as it becomes available. Humans, as
the source of opportunistic feeding, often indulge this behaviour in an effort to
admire or interact with wild animals;
3. Wild animals can suffer when they get used to eating human food instead of
their natural diet. When people feed wildlife, the animals become habituated and
can lose their healthy fear of people, this increases their chances of being
injured or killed. Feeding wildlife can also directly or indirectly cause aggression
in animals, attract vermin and other pests, and transmit diseases;
4. Within the City of Vancouver the feeding of wildlife is variously regulated and
prohibited on land, at sea, and in parks by:
a) BC Wildlife Act 1 Section 33.1(1)(a)(b) stating: A person must not
intentionally feed or attempt to feed dangerous wildlife, or provide, leave
or place an attractant in, on or about any land or premises with the intent
of attracting dangerous wildlife. Where “dangerous wildlife” is defined as
bear, cougar, coyote or wolf;
b) Canada Fisheries Act Marine Mammal Regulations 2 stating: No person
shall disturb a marine mammal, including approaching the marine
mammal, or attempt to feed it;
c) Parks Control by-law 3 indirectly prohibits feeding wildlife in parks through
section 14(l) stating: No person shall deposit food or grain on any area in
a park except in litter cans provided by the Board for the purpose of
receiving garbage and litter;
5. The City of Vancouver has no municipal by-law directly prohibiting the feeding of
wild animals, although Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 4 does restrict littering
on streets and has been partially relied on for the enforcement of feeding wild
animals in the city;
6. Victoria, BC, through its Animal Control By-law 5 explicitly prohibits the feeding of
deers, raccoons, squirrels or rabbits anywhere in the City, and additionally
pigeons, crows and gulls within a prohibited downtown core area;

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 32
7. In Vancouver, public education and enforcement around feeding of wildlife in the
urban ecosystem is inconsistent and ineffective:
a) Vancouver residents feeding wild visitors to their yards or outdoor spaces
have resulted in injuries to people and pets, for example from 2017 at 1st
and Arbutus a woman and her dogs attacked by food-habituated and
aggressive raccoons: “Vancouver woman attacked by raccoons says
they’re being fed by a neighbour” 6 (2017, Global BC);
b) Indiscriminate bird feeding in public spaces (including but not limited to
parks and schoolyards) has been observed to lead to an increase in rats
and other opportunistic feeders;
c) In recent months, a number of aggressive coyote interactions in Stanley
Park have resulted in bites, trail closures, and a number of coyotes being
euthanized. According to the Park Board, "Aggressive behaviour is often
the result of animals being fed by people." As of February 22, 2021, there
have been 15 attacks by coyotes in Stanley Park, though to date no
deaths or serious injuries;
8. In response to a Freedom of Information request from the Fur-Bearers
organization there have been no tickets (fines and warnings) issued by
Vancouver By-law Officers, regarding wildlife feeding in Stanley Park, between
January 1, 2018 to January 19, 2021. Similarly, the Board of Parks and
Recreation confirms there are no responsive records for the same time period.
There have been no fines from BC’s Conservation Office for feeding coyotes;
9. The BC SPCA encourages municipalities to adopt bylaws that prohibit intentional
wildlife feeding and encourage the management of wildlife attractants as
unintentional feeding sources.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council directs staff to report back on Council’s authority to prepare a
by-law to prohibit intentional wildlife feeding, and encourage the management of
wildlife attractants as unintentional feeding sources, pursuant to Vancouver’s
authority to create by-laws for preventing, abating, and prohibiting nuisance or
other authority;
FURTHER THAT, if authorized by the Vancouver Charter or other authority, staff
prepare for consideration a by-law that includes terms such as:
a) No person shall knowingly or willingly feed any wildlife, or in any manner
provide them or allow access to food or any other edible substance;
b) No person shall store any attractant or waste in such a manner that it is
accessible to wildlife;
c) No person shall attract wildlife onto a property such that these wildlife
create a nuisance for other properties;
d) Exemptions for hummingbird feeding by way of liquid feeders, and
songbird feeding by way of wildlife-proof feeders (specifically designed to
prevent access by squirrels and rats).

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 33
B. THAT subject to Council’s approval of A above, staff consider and prepare
amendments to the Ticket Offences By-law No. 9360 to create a ticket offence
for intentional wildlife feeding.
C. THAT subject to Council’s approval of A above, and the enactment of any
proposed by-laws, staff prepare appropriate signage when and where necessary
to promote the new by-law with updated, clear and easy to comprehend signage
in areas where feeding is common.
D. THAT upon enactment of any new by-laws contemplated by A and B above, City
staff share this information with the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation,
CMHC Granville Island Administration, and Vancouver School Board District 39
for their consideration.
1. https://www.bclaws.gov.bc.ca/civix/document/id/complete/statreg/96488_01#section33.1
2. https://gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2018/2018-07-11/html/sor-dors126-eng.html
3. https://parkboardmeetings.vancouver.ca/files/BYLAW-ParksBylawsConsolidated-
20170515.pdf
4. https://bylaws.vancouver.ca/2849c.pdf
5. https://www.victoria.ca/assets/City~Hall/Bylaws/bylaw-11-044.pdf
6. https://globalnews.ca/news/3843464/vancouver-raccoon-attack/
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Motion B6, entitled “Don’t Feed the Wildlife”, be referred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday, March 10, 2021, to
hear from speakers, debate and decision.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Increasing Public Access to Information About False Creek South
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 30, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
2. Turning Construction Hoarding into a Canvass for Public Art in Vancouver
Councillor Kirby-Yung submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 30, 2021, as a
Council Members’ Motion.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 34
3. A Plan to Significantly Reduce the City’s Permitting Backlog
Councillor Dominato submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 30, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
4. Breaking Glass Ceilings: Advocating for Social Media Platforms and Appropriate
Web Based Forums to be Considered Publishers
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 30, 2021, as a
Council Members’ Motion.
5. Accessible Voting Options for Municipal Elections
Councillor Wiebe submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 30, 2021, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence – Councillor Bligh
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Bligh be granted a leave of absence for civic business from meetings
on March 9 and 10, 2021, March 11, 2021 from 6 to 10 pm, and March 12 from 9:50 am
to 11:30 am.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07062)
2. Request for Leave of Absence – Councillor Boyle
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Boyle be granted a leave of absence for civic business from meetings
on March 10, 2021, from 9 am to noon.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07063)

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 35
3. Opening Up – Enabling Readiness for Post Pandemic Arts, Events, Hospitality &
Tourism
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The COVID-19 pandemic has inflicted significant negative economic impact, with
many Vancouver businesses and cultural groups including restaurants, hotels,
tourism businesses, arts organizations and event organizers forced to curtail,
severely limit or shutter operations due to health guidelines and physical
distancing restrictions;
2. BC has recently made announcements regarding the expedition of its vaccination
program citing the intent to have all British Columbians receive a vaccine dose by
the end of July, and stated it expects to see progressive relaxation of restrictions
commence before Summer;
3. Organizations like the BC Coalition of Tourism and Hospitality Businesses, BC
Restaurants and Foodservices Association, ABLE BC, BIA’s, Tourism
Vancouver, Hospitality Vancouver Association, the arts community, and event
producers, all cite the importance of a defined plan that outlines the anticipated
phases and timelines for the opening up of different sectors, businesses and
events;
4. There are examples of countries and jurisdictions that have developed roadmaps
for lifting lockdown such as England, which has created and communicated a
plan that identifies specific phases and timelines for the anticipated unlocking of
restrictions;
5. Prior to these recent advancements in BC’s vaccination program, it was not
anticipated that events, even of smaller size, would start up before Q4 2021;
however new timelines suggest they could be possible in Q3.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the Mayor write to the Premier and Provincial Health Officer on behalf of
Council, outlining the importance of an articulated Opening Up Plan identifying
phases for different sectors, businesses and events and projected timing, as well
as the importance of that plan being communicated well in advance, in order to
provide information to industry, notably the hospitality, arts and events sectors,
that will enable them to understand, plan, and resource for expected phases as
BC works its way towards post-pandemic life.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back on Vancouver’s readiness to permit
small-scale outdoor events in Q3 in parallel with BC’s vaccination schedule and
the anticipated lifting of lockdown restrictions, as well as on potential options to
streamline the event permit process to reduce processing required by staff and to

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 36
support recovery of the arts and events sector.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 07065)
(Councillor Boyle abstained from the vote)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Requests for Report Back to Council
Councillor Swanson requested clarification on when Council requests a report back on an issue,
how the information is delivered and made public. For example, how is it determined whether
the information sent to Council is by memo or staff report. The Acting City Manager provided a
brief response and agreed to provide an update on the frequency of posting of memos made
public.
2. Balancing Bus Stops
Councillor Swanson enquired whether the Seniors Advisory Committee or the Persons With
Disabilities Advisory Committee were consulted with regard to Translink’s plan to cut the
number of bus stops along certain bus routes and whether these cuts can be put on hold until
the above-noted committees have been consulted. The Acting City Manager agreed to follow up
with Engineering staff.
3. Data Sharing with the Vancouver School Board
Councillor Carr enquired about the importance of data sharing on growth and population
projections with the Vancouver School Board regarding long-range facilities planning. The
Acting City Manager provided a brief update and agreed to provide more information on what
will be shared in the Memorandum of Understanding with the Vancouver School Board.
4. Adopt a Pet Program - Adopting Rats
Councillor De Genova enquired about the Adopt a Pet Program at the City, specifically the cost
recovery of adopting rats for $5 and if another non-profit society was considered to undertake
this program. The Acting City Manager agreed to provide more information on the program.
5. Past Motion - Protecting Tenants - Taking Action Against Renovictions
Councillor Fry requested an update on the motion entitled “Protecting Tenants – Taking Action
Against Renovictions”, that was passed at the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priories meeting on October 7, 8 and 15, 2020. In particular, he enquired whether the Province
has provided an update and when a staff report would be coming forward to Council. The Acting
City Manager provided a brief update and indicated the Province is proposing changes
regarding the above-noted motion and are actively working with staff but there have been no
further updates to share from the Province at this time.

Council Meeting
Minutes, March 9, 2021 37
6. Past Motion - Standing Up to the Rise in Anti-Asian Racism, All Racism & Hate
Crimes
Councillor Kirby-Yung requested an update on the motion entitled “Standing Up to the Rise in
Anti-Asian Racism, All Racism and Hate Crimes” that was referred to staff at the Council
meeting on June 9, 2020. The Acting City Manager provided a brief update and agreed to follow
up with staff and provide a memo on the status on the above-noted motion as a first step before
proceeding with additional work.
7. Review of Vancouver Police Budget
Councillor Wiebe requested information on the process of the Vancouver Police budget review
by BC’s director of policing. The Acting City Manager indicated that at this time there is no
information to share as the review is in its preliminary stages and he would share information as
it becomes available.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 3:54 pm.
* * * * *