AUDITOR GENERAL RECRUITMENT COMMITTEE
FEBRUARY 19, 2021
A meeting of the Auditor General Recruitment Committee was held on Friday,
February 19, 2021, at 1:02 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Committee
meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law and Vancouver Charter and the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial
Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Councillor Colleen Hardwick, Chair
Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Vice-Chair
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Lisa Payne (External Representative)
Gordon Ruth (External Representative)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee will go into a meeting later today which is closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to
business interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of
Privacy Act; and
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in
public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Auditor General Recruitment Committee Meeting
Minutes, Friday, February 19, 2021 2
1. COMMS – Discrepancy - Auditor General Recruitment Committee - Terms of
Reference
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Auditor General Recruitment Committee amend the previously adopted
motion of December 4, 2020, regarding the Terms of Reference for the External
Representatives.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06998)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Auditor General Recruitment Committee approve the Terms of Reference for
the External Representatives, as set out in the memorandum from the Acting City Clerk,
dated February 12, 2021, entitled “Discrepancy in Terms of Reference for External
Representatives on the Auditor General Recruitment Committee”, Section 3 - Committee
Composition and Term to read as follows:
Committee Composition and Term:
The Committee will be comprised of up to seven members, 5 of whom will be
Councillors, and up to 2 of whom will be fully participating but non-voting External
Advisors (due only to Vancouver Charter constraints). Appointment to the
Committee will be for a term of the Committee as set out in the Committee’s
Terms of Reference. The Committee has been formed to serve at the discretion
of City Council and each External Advisor serves at the discretion of City Council.
As such, the term of an External Advisors’ appointment may be extended, or the
Committee may be disbanded and/or an External Advisor’s appointment may be
withdrawn or cancelled without cause at any time, on written notice from the City.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06999)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Auditor General Recruitment Committee adjourned at 1:08 pm.
* * * * *