REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 25, 2020
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, November 25, 2020, at 9:31 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
This Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law and Vancouver Charter and the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial
Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova*, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry, Vice-Chair
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council adopt 1 and 2, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 2
1. Coal Harbour School, Childcare and Affordable Housing Project
September 1, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, in
consultation with the Director of Legal Services, be authorized on behalf of the
City, to take all steps necessary to deliver the Coal Harbour School, Childcare
and Affordable Housing Project (the “Project”) located at 480 Broughton Street,
legally described as PIDs 023-656-794 & 023-656-956, Lots 12 and 13 of the
Public Harbour of Burrard Inlet Plan LMP 29891 (the “Property”), including
consolidating the Property into one legal parcel and preparing, negotiating,
approving, executing and/or registering all necessary legal agreements, survey
plans and documents including but not limited to a development management
agreement (planning, design, construction) with the Board of Education of School
District No. 39 (the “VBE”), a lease agreement with the VBE and a master
operating agreement with all stakeholders including the Vancouver Board of
Parks and Recreation (the “Park Board”), all on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management and the
Director of Legal Services.
B. THAT, subject to the approval of A above, Council approve an increase of
$73,812,000 to the Multi-Year Capital Project Budget for the Coal Harbour
Project to bring the total to $80,812,000 and the related Annual Capital
Expenditure Budget will be set up in the 2021 Capital Budget. The updated
funding sources for Project are as follows:
• $31,655,000 Board of Education of School District No. 39 contribution for
the school component of the Project;
• $3,000,000 of Provincial childcare funding from BC Childcare
Memorandum of Understanding;
• $3,153,045 childcare contribution from 349 West Georgia Street;
• $13,815,200 from the cash Community Amenity Contribution (CAC) from
1575-1577 West Georgia Street and 620 Cardero Street (including the
$7 million previously approved to complete the planning/scoping and
detailed design of the Project);
• $7,830,477 of commercial linkage contributions from 1133-1155 Melville
Street, 400 West Georgia Street, 425 W 6th Avenue, and 333 Seymour
Street;
• $14,130,700 of replacement housing allocation remaining in the area-
specific reserves balances for the Cedar Cottage / Welwyn, Burrard
Slopes, Oakridge / Langara, and Downtown South Development Cost
Levies (DCL) districts; and
• $7,227,578 from the cash CAC from 225 Smithe Street.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above, unless and until all required survey plans, legal agreements and
documents are executed and delivered by the General Manager of Real Estate
and Facilities Management.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06720)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 3
2. Annual Financial Authorities - 2021
November 17, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT, for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2021, Council authorize
the Director of Finance to draw warrants for payment (i.e. issue an authorization
to the City Treasurer to disburse funds from a City account), provided that any
such warrants for payment be reported in writing to the City Clerk for the
information of Council within 15 days after the end of the month in which each
warrant is drawn, in accordance with Sections 215 and 216 of the Vancouver
Charter.
B. THAT, for the period from January 1 to July 15, 2021, Council authorizes the
Director of Finance to temporarily use such proceeds from the sale of debentures
that have not yet been expended to meet other expenditure requirements of the
City, pending collection of the 2020 general purpose tax levy, in accordance with
Section 259(1)(b) of the Vancouver Charter.
C. THAT, for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2021, Council authorize
the Director of Finance to invest City funds not immediately required and to vary
the investments from time to time where appropriate, in accordance with
Sections 201, 259, and 260 of the Vancouver Charter.
D. THAT, for the period from January 8, 2021 to January 7, 2022, pursuant to
Section 263 of the Vancouver Charter, Council authorize the Director of Finance
to establish a short-term borrowing facility to assist in managing the City’s cash
flow with the maximum outstanding amount not to exceed $60 million.
E. THAT, subject to D above being approved, Council instruct the Director of Legal
Services to bring forward a by-law for enactment by Council authorizing the
borrowing referred to in D above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06721)
3. Report Back on Empty Homes Tax 2021 Tax Rate Increase
November 17, 2020
STRIKE AND REPLACE MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council direct staff to monitor the data resulting from the increase of the
tax rate from 1% to 1.25% and report back in late 2021 with potential amendment
to the Vacancy Tax By-Law to further increase the tax rate for the 2022 vacancy
reference year.
B. THAT Council direct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward amendments
to the Vacancy Tax By-Law to increase the vacancy tax rate to 3% beginning in
the 2021 vacancy reference year. In addition, staff use any additional revenues
to increase the focus on compliance as recommended by the housing policy

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 4
experts, work with the province on enforcement and data sharing, and invest in
housing for households with an annual income of less than $50,000.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06714)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed)
4. Petition for the Removal of the Alma Street Building Line (Motion B.2)
At the Council meeting on November 24, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on November 25, 2020, in order to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Council has received a petition from seven owners with properties along the west
side of Alma Street between 4th Avenue and Point Grey Road to remove the
Alma Street Building Line north of 4th Avenue;
2. Building lines as described in Section 14 of the Zoning and Development By-law.
Building lines were typically adopted for transportation and surface utility
purposes, such as for:
• Sidewalk widening,
• Road widening,
• Turn bays,
• Cycling facilities,
• Transit facilities,
• Tree planting, or
• Landscaping and green infrastructure;
3. The west side of Alma Street, north of 4th Avenue has a building line, as defined
in the Zoning and Development Bylaw, and as part of the Point Grey Road
improvements, has functionally changed from an arterial street to a local street;
and
4. Local streets typically have less requirement for road width than arterial streets.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to review the Alma Street
Building line north of 4th Avenue, with a consideration of the important transportation
and planning initiatives underway;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back no later than July 31, 2021.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06715)
(Councillor Wiebe opposed)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 5
Prior to start of Item 5, Sustaining Vancouver’s Chinatown (Motion B.3), Councillor Wiebe left
the meeting due to conflict of interest, as previously stated at the Council meeting on
November 24, 2020, and did not return until after the conclusion of the item.
5. Sustaining Vancouver’s Chinatown (Motion B.3)
At the Council meeting on November 24, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on November 25, 2020, in order to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. COVID-19 has had significant negative economic impact including on small
businesses and neighbourhoods across Vancouver (due to closure periods,
physical distancing requirements and costs of additional cleaning and safety
protocols). A full economic recovery from COVID-19 is expected to take some
time, likely years;
2. Vancouver’s Chinatown is a cultural gem. Considered the largest Chinatown in
Canada, it has been a designated National Historic Site since June 2010.
Chinatown was established even prior to the incorporation of the City of
Vancouver. It is a community that has weathered two world wars – with Chinese
Canadians fighting for a country in which they could not vote, race riots -- spurred
on by anti-Asian sentiment, and discriminatory policies from all three levels of
government, including the Chinese head tax, a freeway that would have paved
over Chinatown, and even a federal order to ban the sale of delectable Chinese
barbecued meats;
3. In recent years, Chinatown has been facing new challenges from the changing
demographics of residents, to developmental pressures, as well as safety
concerns related to its adjacency to the Downtown Eastside (DTES), the
epicenter of Vancouver’s mental health and addictions crisis and housing crisis;
4. Despite these adversities, Chinatown has persevered. There has been
resurgence in interest in Chinatown with new shops and restaurants opening and
inducing new and returning visitors, and a Cantonese language school organized
by Youth Collaborative for Chinatown in partnership with the Wong’s Benevolent
Association, aimed reaching youth and adults eager to reconnect with their
heritage. The community old and young are impassioned about protecting and
preserving the rich, cultural legacy of Chinatown and its unique characteristics,
whether it is food, arts, cultural heritage, language or more;
5. In April 2018, City Council officially apologized to the Chinese Canadian
community, recognizing the historical discrimination against Chinese People in
Vancouver, and committed to conserving, commemorating, and enhancing the
living heritage and cultural assets of the community. The Chinatown Legacy

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 6
Stewardship Group was appointed by Council to advise the City on specific
actions in order to carry out that commitment;
6. Over the past months however, the unprecedented COVID pandemic as well as
worsening conditions in the DTES due to the ongoing opioid health and housing
crisis, are threatening that living heritage and many businesses and arts
organizations in Chinatown were forced to shut down. Although businesses all
across Canada have been impacted, Chinatown merchants were especially hard
hit due to the majority of them not being able to access Federal COVID
assistance including the wage subsidy being microbusinesses (Mom & Pop
Shops) that didn’t have staff other than themselves, and landlords unilaterally not
applying for rental subsidies (often the landlord or tenant not qualifying
themselves);
7. In fact, according to a preliminary report from City Staff, vacancy rates in
Chinatown have increased by 23.7 percent compared to before the pandemic.
Vacancy rates now stand at 17 percent relative to the Vancouver city wide
average of 10 percent vacancies;
8. In addition to economic challenges, a reduction in foot traffic related to the
pandemic as well as the increased impacts of social disorder has led to a
troubling perception of Chinatown as an unsafe and unkempt neighbourhood,
hindering economic survival and recovery in the community;
9. Without immediate action, more than 700 small businesses and arts and culture
organizations that operate in Chinatown are at risk. Many are culturally relevant
or legacy businesses such as the community hub Goldstone Bakery and
Restaurant which recently closed after 30+ years of operation. These businesses
are what make Chinatown; their character and customs which take place at these
culturally relevant small businesses and arts organizations constitute the unique
qualities of Chinatown that are considered to be intangible, living cultural heritage
that will soon be lost forever and upon which the contemplated UNESCO World
Heritage Site designation hinges;
10. It is imperative that the City take action now to protect and conserve the unique
characteristics of Chinatown to help create a welcoming and safe place for
people to enjoy and visit building upon the recent Council motion that called upon
the Federal Government for a Targeted COVID-19 Funding Program for
Vancouver’s Chinatown to provide financial support for local, small businesses,
and cultural and arts organizations;
11. A broad number of groups have come together to advocate for these measures
including the Vancouver Chinatown Legacy Stewardship Group, Vancouver Dr.
Sun Yat-Sen Classical Chinese Garden, Chinese Cultural Centre of Vancouver,
Vancouver Chinatown Merchants Association, Vancouver Chinatown BIA,
Chinatown Plaza Tenants Association, SUCCESS, Chinatown Foundation, and
Strathcona BIA; and
12. The Chinatown Community Stewardship Program is run by EMBERS Eastside
Works and supported by the City of Vancouver through the Chinatown
Transformation Team and in consultation with Chinatown businesses and some
of the concerned groups listed above. Community Stewards are hired from DTES

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 7
residents facing barriers to employment to provide a peer approach to de-
escalation and public realm improvements, and facilitate a safe and inclusive
community. This program complements existing security and safety work by the
BIA and CPC. From April 2020 until September, some highlights of their work
during COVID-19 includes:
a. Loss prevention, de-escalation, crisis intervention and removal of almost
15,000 needles from storefronts;
b. Responding to over 140 calls for assistance by local businesses; and
c. Over 950 street and storefront interactions.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council work to reduce barriers to visiting Chinatown by directing staff to
include as part of proposed December staff report on meter rate changes for
2021, information on the fee structure and pricing rationale for metered parking in
Chinatown relative to other neighbourhoods in the City of Vancouver, with the
goal of ensuring they are as competitive as possible while still meeting traffic
management goals for turnover and mode share;
FURTHER THAT staff review and prioritize opportunities to reduce barriers to
active transportation and public transit access to Chinatown, including secure
bicycle and e-bike locking areas, and clean safe bus stops.
B. THAT Council direct staff to engage with EasyPark to discuss the potential for an
incentive program for the Chinatown Plaza Parkade for visitors who patronize
local Chinatown businesses, recognizing that the lot is currently underutilized;
FURTHER THAT staff engage with EasyPark to consider installation of free
indoor bicycle and e-bike racks, considering lessons and best practices from Lot
31, (Water Street).
C. THAT Council prioritize health, cleanliness and safety in Chinatown by bringing
forward options as part of the 2021 budget process to increase street, alley and
sidewalk cleaning and sanitation by City of Vancouver Streets & Engineering, as
well as well as options through the 2021 budget process to expand and enhance
the Community Stewards Program from the current single team that is funded.
D. THAT Council direct staff to consider and report back on options for a pilot
simplified and temporary Merchandise Display Permit fee structure and program,
to facilitate outdoor shopping, installation of contactless merchandise drop-off
and pick-up zones, and queueing spaces for Chinatown to encourage physical
distancing, street animation and placemaking for street-facing businesses;
FURTHER THAT results of this pilot be used to inform potential city-wide
implementation for retail businesses and shopping.
E. THAT Council direct Real Estate and Facilities Management (REFM) to work with
Chinatown Transformation Team and Legacy Stewardship Group with
engagement of the larger Chinatown community, to prepare an expedited,
innovative tenanting and activation strategy for the City-owned Chinatown Plaza

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 8
(106 Keefer Street) with the goal of creating a vibrant hub in this historic
neighbourhood that also enables ongoing programming and placemaking.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06716)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
6. Work with Senior Governments to Address the Overdose Crisis
(Motion B.4)
At the Council meeting on November 24, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on November 25, 2020, in order to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from 27 speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 12 pm and reconvened at 3:34 pm.
* * * * *
At 4:55 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete hearing from the
current speaker.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
During the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 5:05 pm and reconvened at
6:10 pm, with Councillor Fry in the Chair.
At 6:19 pm, Councillor De Genova returned as Chair.
* * * * *
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The overdose crisis continues to claim many lives, with 1,536 deaths in
Vancouver since a Provincial Overdose Emergency was declared in April 2016,
and an estimated 328 overdose deaths in the City of Vancouver this year to date,
putting 2020 on track to be the worst year yet;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 9
2. The COVID-19 pandemic has further isolated drug users, impacted access to
harm reduction services, and fueled greater toxicity within the illicit drug supply;
3. Premier Horgan wrote to Prime Minister Trudeau on July 20, 2020, asking the
federal government to decriminalize personal possession of all psychoactive
substances, as a necessary next step to reduce the stigma associated with
substance use and encourage people at risk to access lifesaving harm reduction
and treatment services;
4. The Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police agree that decriminalization of
simple possession is an effective way to reduce public health and public safety
harms associated with substance use and endorses alternatives to criminal
sanctions for simple possession of illicit drugs;
5. Vancouver Coastal Health’s (VCH) Chief Medical Health Officer Dr. Patricia Daly
and Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry have called for the
decriminalization of personal possession of illegal substances, as an urgent and
necessary next step to addressing the overdose crisis;
6. The PIVOT Legal Society, Canadian Drug Policy Coalition, and Canadian
HIV/AIDS Legal Network recently wrote to the Federal Ministers of Health, Public
Safety and Emergency Preparedness, and Justice and Attorney General to urge
their government to use all available tools to decriminalize simple drug
possession;
7. Decriminalization is a step toward addressing anti-Black, anti-poor, and colonial
policing at this time; and
8. Vancouver is in a unique position to move forward with decriminalization within
its municipal borders, in a coordinated partnership with the Vancouver Police
Department and Vancouver Coastal Health Authority.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct the Mayor to consult with the
Vancouver Coastal Health Chief Medical Health Officer and then write to the federal
Ministers of Health, Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness, and Justice and
Attorney General to request a federal exemption from the Controlled Drugs and
Substances Act to decriminalize personal possession of illicit substances within the
City’s boundaries for medical purposes, in order to address urgent public health
concerns caused by the overdose crisis and COVID-19;
FURTHER THAT the Mayor write to all other B.C. local governments urging them to
consider pursuing a federal exemption from the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act to
decriminalize personal possession of illicit substances within their municipal boundaries;
AND FURTHER THAT the Mayor write to the Union of BC Municipalities and the
Federation of Canadian Municipalities seeking their support for decriminalizing personal
possession of illicit substances.
amended

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 10
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be added as additional clauses at the end:
FURTHER THAT Council acknowledge that a spectrum of measures are
necessary to address the ongoing opiate overdose crisis, including the need for
additional treatment and therapy options;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct the Mayor to advocate vociferously and
write to the Federal and Provincial governments including the respective
Ministers of Health for expanded investment in and access to mental health and
addictions treatment services and therapy options, towards shifting the paradigm
and working to break the cycle of addictions and overdose deaths in Vancouver.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the words “opiate overdose” be struck and replaced with the words “poisoned
drug supply”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06717)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06718).
The amended amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06719).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. The overdose crisis continues to claim many lives, with 1,536 deaths in
Vancouver since a Provincial Overdose Emergency was declared in April 2016,
and an estimated 328 overdose deaths in the City of Vancouver this year to date,
putting 2020 on track to be the worst year yet;
2. The COVID-19 pandemic has further isolated drug users, impacted access to
harm reduction services, and fueled greater toxicity within the illicit drug supply;
3. Premier Horgan wrote to Prime Minister Trudeau on July 20, 2020, asking the
federal government to decriminalize personal possession of all psychoactive
substances, as a necessary next step to reduce the stigma associated with
substance use and encourage people at risk to access lifesaving harm reduction
and treatment services;
4. The Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police agree that decriminalization of
simple possession is an effective way to reduce public health and public safety
harms associated with substance use and endorses alternatives to criminal
sanctions for simple possession of illicit drugs;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 11
5. Vancouver Coastal Health’s (VCH) Chief Medical Health Officer Dr. Patricia Daly
and Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry have called for the
decriminalization of personal possession of illegal substances, as an urgent and
necessary next step to addressing the overdose crisis;
6. The PIVOT Legal Society, Canadian Drug Policy Coalition, and Canadian
HIV/AIDS Legal Network recently wrote to the Federal Ministers of Health, Public
Safety and Emergency Preparedness, and Justice and Attorney General to urge
their government to use all available tools to decriminalize simple drug
possession;
7. Decriminalization is a step toward addressing anti-Black, anti-poor, and colonial
policing at this time; and
8. Vancouver is in a unique position to move forward with decriminalization within
its municipal borders, in a coordinated partnership with the Vancouver Police
Department and Vancouver Coastal Health Authority.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct the Mayor to consult with the
Vancouver Coastal Health Chief Medical Health Officer and then write to the federal
Ministers of Health, Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness, and Justice and
Attorney General to request a federal exemption from the Controlled Drugs and
Substances Act to decriminalize personal possession of illicit substances within the
City’s boundaries for medical purposes, in order to address urgent public health
concerns caused by the overdose crisis and COVID-19;
FURTHER THAT the Mayor write to all other B.C. local governments urging them to
consider pursuing a federal exemption from the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act to
decriminalize personal possession of illicit substances within their municipal boundaries;
FURTHER THAT the Mayor write to the Union of BC Municipalities and the Federation
of Canadian Municipalities seeking their support for decriminalizing personal possession
of illicit substances;
FURTHER THAT Council acknowledge that a spectrum of measures are necessary to
address the ongoing poisoned drug supply crisis, including the need for additional
treatment and therapy options;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct the Mayor to advocate vociferously and write to the
Federal and Provincial governments including the respective Ministers of Health for
expanded investment in and access to mental health and addictions treatment services
and therapy options, towards shifting the paradigm and working to break the cycle of
addictions and overdose deaths in Vancouver.
At 7:40 pm, Councillor Wiebe retroactively declared conflict of interest on Item 5, Sustaining
Vancouver’s Chinatown (Motion B.3), as he serves as a Director on the Easy Park Board.
The Committee adjourned at 7:41 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 25, 2020
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, November 25, 2020,
at 7:41 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, November 25, 2020
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. Coal Harbour School, Childcare and Affordable Housing Project
2. Annual Financial Authorities - 2021
3. Report Back on Empty Homes Tax 2021 Tax Rate Increase
4. Petition for the Removal of the Alma Street Building Line (Member’s Motion B.2)
5. Sustaining Vancouver’s Chinatown (Motion B.3)
6. Work with Senior Governments to Address the Overdose Crisis (Motion B.4)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 25, 2020 2
Items 1 to 6
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of November 25, 2020, as contained in items 1 to 6,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enact the by-law 1 as listed on the agenda for this meeting, and authorize
the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to authorize the borrowing of certain sums of money from January 8, 2021 to
January 7, 2022, pending the collection of real property taxes (By-law No. 12842)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 7:44 pm.
* * * * *