COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 24, 2020
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, November 24, 2020, at
9:31 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law and Vancouver Charter
and the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia –
Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council (City Finance and Services) – October 22, 2020
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting of October 22, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Public Hearing – October 27, 28 and 29, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of October 27, 28 and 29, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Court of Revision – Local Improvements – November 3, 2020
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Minutes of the Court of Revision – Local Improvements meeting of
November 3, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 3
4. Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – November 4, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting of November 4, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Council – November 3, 5 and 17, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of November 3, 5 and 17, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
6. Special Council (Motion to go In Camera) – November 17, 2020
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Motion to go In Camera) meeting of
November 17, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Councillor Swanson noted she would be withdrawing Council Members’ Motion B1 entitled
“Protecting Tenants from Real Estate Investment Trusts”
Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest on Report 6 entitled “Enhanced Enforcement of
Street Vending By-law No. 10868 – Amending the Tick Offences By-law No. 9630” as he has
interest in multiple businesses that are affected by the report that relates to patios.
* * * * *
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Reports 1, 2, 4, 7 and 8, and Referral Reports 1a to 1c and 2, on
consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 4
REPORTS
1. 2020 Cultural Grants - Cultural Impact Critical Assistance (CICA) COVID-19
Recovery Investment Grants
October 27, 2020
A. THAT Council approve 84 one-time Cultural Impact Critical Assistance (CICA)
grants, totaling $1,459,078, to 84 organizations in support of COVID-19 recovery,
in the amounts recommended for each organization in the “Grant Recomm.”
column in Appendix A of the Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled “2020
Cultural Grants – Cultural Impact Critical Assistance (CICA) COVID-19 Recovery
Investment Grants”. Source of funding is the 2020 Cultural Grants Operating
Budget.
B. THAT Council approve 17 grants totaling $250,000 to organizations in the
amounts recommended for each organization in the “Grant Recomm.” column in
Appendix A of the Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled “2020 Cultural Grants
– Cultural Impact Critical Assistance (CICA) COVID-19 Recovery Investment
Grants”, to support equity-seeking organizations disproportionately impacted by
COVID-19 in support of recovery, and as part of an Equity Grants pilot program.
Source of funding is the 2020 Cultural Grants Operating Budget.
C. THAT Council approve a one-time grant of $300,000, to Creative BC for renewal
of the Vancouver Music Fund to support diverse individual artists in their
COVID-19 recovery, working in the music sector as listed in Appendix A of the
Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled “2020 Cultural Grants – Cultural Impact
Critical Assistance (CICA) COVID-19 Recovery Investment Grants”. Source of
funding is the 2020 Cultural Grants Operating budget.
D. THAT Council approve a one-time grant to the Vancity Community Foundation in
the amount of $50,000, to support BIPOC artists as part of a community-led
initiative: Sector Equity for Anti-racism in the Arts (SEARA) in their COVID-19
recovery, as listed in Appendix A of the Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled
“2020 Cultural Grants – Cultural Impact Critical Assistance (CICA) COVID-19
Recovery Investment Grants”. Source of funding is the 2020 Cultural Grants
Operating Budget.
E. THAT, pursuant to Section 206 (1) (j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization listed in Appendix A of the Report dated October 27, 2020,
entitled “2020 Cultural Grants – Cultural Impact Critical Assistance (CICA)
COVID-19 Recovery Investment Grants”, that is not otherwise a charity
registered with the Canada Revenue Agency to be contributing to the culture of
Vancouver.
F. THAT the General Manager of Arts, Culture, and Community Services (GM of
ACCS) (or their designate) is authorized to negotiate and execute agreements to
disburse the grants described in this report on the terms and conditions generally
set out below, and on such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the
GM of ACCS and the City Solicitor.

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 5
G. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A to F above
unless and until the applicable grant agreement or letter of agreement is
approved by the City in accordance with G and executed and delivered by both
the grant recipient and General Manager of Arts, Culture, and Community
Services (or their designate).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A TO D
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06678)
2. Theatre Rental Grant Allocations – Spring 2021
October 27, 2020
A. THAT Council approve Theatre Rental Grants to 40 organizations totalling
$1,463,870 for use of the Civic Theatres from January 1 - August 31, 2021 in the
amounts recommended for each organization in the “2021 Recomm.” column in
Appendix A of the Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled “Theatre Rental Grant
Allocations – Spring 2021”. Source of funding is the 2021 Cultural Grants
Operating budget (Theatre Rental Grants).
B. THAT, pursuant to Section 206 (1) (j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization listed in Appendix A of the Report dated October 27, 2020,
entitled “Theatre Rental Grant Allocations – Spring 2021”, that is not otherwise a
charity registered with the Canada Revenue Agency to be contributing to the
culture of Vancouver.
C. THAT the General Manager of Arts, Culture, and Community Services (GM of
ACCS) (or their designate) is authorized to negotiate and execute agreements to
disburse the grants described in this report on the terms and conditions generally
set out below, and on such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the
GM of ACCS and the City Solicitor.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A above
unless and until the applicable theatre license agreement is complete and
approved by the City in accordance with C above and executed and delivered by
both the grant recipient and General Manager of Arts, Culture, and Community
Services (or their designate).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06680)
3. New Licence Agreement for Saa-ust (“Lift Up”) Centre, 44 East Cordova Street
October 15, 2020
Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services and Mary Clare Zak,
Managing Director, Social Policy and Projects Division, Arts, Culture and Community Services,
responded to questions.

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 6
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
A. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute a licence agreement (the “Licence”) with The Indian Residential School
Survivors Society (the “Society”), which is a charitable organization registered
with the Canada Revenue Agency, as the non-profit operator for a portion of the
City-owned property with a civic address of 44 East Cordova Street, and legally
described as: PID’s 015-691-144 and 015-691-187; Lots 9 & 10, Block 8, District
Lot 196, Plan 184, New Westminster Land District (the “Premises”), a site plan
and floor plan of which is included in Appendix A of the Report dated October 15,
2020, entitled “New Licence Agreement for Saa-ust (“Lift Up”) Centre, 44 East
Cordova Street”. The Licence shall be on the following basic terms, and
otherwise on terms satisfactory to the General Manager of Real Estate and
Facilities Management, the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services and the Director of Legal Services:
Term: Six (6) months, commencing January 1, 2021
Rent (Licence Fee): $10.00 for the Term
Early Termination: in favour of the City upon 60 days’ written notice
Overholding: upon expiry of the Term on a month-to-month basis
Maintenance: City will only be responsible for repairs and maintenance that
would have been necessary if the Society did not hold a licence for the Premises,
and all other repair, maintenance and operating costs to be the responsibility of
the Society.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.
C. THAT the City commit to the uninterrupted continuation of services provided by
the Saa-ust Centre.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT in C, the phrase “making best efforts to ensuring” be inserted after the words
“commit to”
CARRIED (Vote No. 06673)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
The amendment having carried, the amended motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AND A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06674)

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 7
4. 2021 Land Assessment Averaging: Notice to BC Assessment Authority
November 10, 2020
A. THAT, pursuant to Section 374.4 (4b) of the Vancouver Charter, the City Clerk be
instructed to notify the BC Assessment Authority (“BC Assessment”), before
January 1, 2021, of Council’s intent to consider the adoption of targeted land
assessment averaging for the purpose of property tax calculations for 2021.
It should be noted that this notice of intent is revocable should Council, at a later
date, decide not to proceed with this mechanism.
B. THAT the Director of Finance be instructed to provide the required two weeks’
notice to the public in advance of Council’s consideration of the use of targeted
land assessment averaging and, before March 31, 2021, report on the projected
taxation impacts of the program based on the assessed values provided by BC
Assessment in the 2021 Completed Roll.
C. THAT the Area Assessor for Vancouver be invited to address Council on the 2021
assessment trends.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06683)
5. Criteria for 100% Secured Rental and Below-Market Housing as an Alternative to
Inclusionary Social Housing in the Burrard Corridor of the West End Community
Plan
November 5, 2020
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, introduced the
above-noted report, and along with Neil Hrushowy, Assistant Director, Community planning,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and Dan Garrison Assistant Director, Policy and
Regulation, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided a presentation outlining short
term guiding criteria for rezoning applications that comprise 100% secured rental housing with a
minimum of 20% of the residential floor area is secured as below-market rental, only in the
Burrard Corridor (Areas D and E) of the West End Community Plan.
Council heard from one speaker in support of the recommendation.
Neil Hrushowy, Dan Garrison, Gil Kelley, and Thien Phan, Planner II, Rezoning Centre,
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 11:06 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council have a second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 8
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT, to advance the delivery of affordable housing and accelerate community
and economic recovery objectives, Council endorse the criteria in Appendix A of
the Report dated November 5, 2020, entitled “Criteria for 100% Secured Rental
and Below-Market Housing as an Alternative to Inclusionary Social Housing in
the Burrard Corridor of the West End Community Plan”, to establish conditions
under which rezoning applications can be considered for 100% secured rental
with below-market housing within rezoning areas D and E of the Burrard Corridor
in the West End Community Plan, as an alternative option to providing
inclusionary social housing.
B. THAT passage of the above resolution will in no way fetter Council’s discretion in
considering any rezoning application and does not create any legal rights for the
applicant, any person, or obligation on the part of the City; and expenditure of
funds or incurred costs are at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be added as C:
C. THAT staff publicly report back to Council on progress to date in
implementing the West End Community Plan Public Benefit Strategy and
any measures needed to achieve the community benefits detailed as plan
objectives.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06676)
The amendment having carried unanimously, the amended motion was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 06677) with Councillor Hardwick opposed.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:54 am, and reconvened at 4:01 pm.
* * * * *
6. Enforcement of Street Vending By-law No. 10868 – Amending the Ticket Offences
By-law No. 9360
November 10, 2020
* * * * *
Councillor Wiebe had declared a conflict of interest on this report earlier in the meeting and left
the meeting at 4:01 pm and returned at 4:23 pm at the conclusion of this item.
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 9
Margaret Wittgens, Deputy General Manager, Street Use Management, Engineering Services,
and Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council approve, in principle, proposed amendments to the Ticket Offenses
By-law to add certain provisions of the Street Vending By-law, as set out in of the Report
dated November 10, 2020, entitled “Enforcement of Street Vending By-law No. 10868 –
Amending the Ticket Offences By-law No. 9360”;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Ticket Offences By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix A the above-noted report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06697)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
7. Contract Award for Consulting Services for Marpole-Oakridge Community Centre
November 9, 2020
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, City’s Director of
Legal Services, and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into a
contract with Diamond and Schmitt Architects Inc., as the Consultant for the
design and development of Marpole-Oakridge community centre, child care and
outdoor pool for a term of 6 years or until services are complete, with an
estimated contract value of $4,781,295.00 plus applicable taxes over the term of
the project, to be funded through the capital project for the planning and design
of Marpole-Oakridge Community Centre, Marpole-Oakridge Childcare and
Marpole-Oakridge Outdoor Pool.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management be authorized to execute on
behalf of the City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A to C..
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06687)
8. Funding Application to Infrastructure Canada (Clean BC Communities Fund) –
Queen Elizabeth Theatre Energy Retrofit
November 2, 2020
A. THAT Council approve a funding application to the Investing in Canada
Infrastructure Program (ICIP) – Green Infrastructure Stream - Clean BC

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 10
Communities Fund for $1.73 million contribution to a proposed $2.50 million
Queen Elizabeth Theatre Energy Retrofit project.
B. THAT, subject to the successful application for funding, and in accordance with
the City’s Capital Budget Policy, Council direct staff to bring forward details of the
eligible project scope and costs and a request for approval of the Multi-Year
Capital Project Budget and related Annual Capital Expenditure Budget to be
funded from the Energy Optimization Program funding approved in the 2019-22
Capital Plan.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06688)
REFERRAL REPORTS
1. Employment Lands and Economy Review
a) Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Zoning and
Development By-law Amendments to Remove Barriers to New Work-Only
Artist Studios in Industrial Areas
November 16, 2020
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to make an application to amend the
Zoning and Development By-law to remove barriers to the
creation of new work-only artist studios in the industrial district
schedules, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated November 16, 2020, entitled “Employment
Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Zoning and
Development By-law Amendments to Remove Barriers to New
Work-Only Artist Studios in Industrial Areas”; and that the
application be referred to Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary amending by-law generally as set out in
Appendix A of the above-noted report for consideration at Public
Hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal
rights for any person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the
risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the
cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the
public hearing shall not obligate the City to enact any
rezoning by-laws;

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 11
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving
Officer, shall not in any way be limited or directed in the
exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of when
they are called upon to exercise such authority or
discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06689)
b) Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Mount
Pleasant I-1 Amendment and New I-1C District Schedule
October 27, 2020
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to make an application to amend the
Zoning and Development By-law:
(i) to amend the I-1 District Schedule to add Health Care
Office as a Conditional Approval Use, generally in
accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report dated
October 27, 2020, entitled “Employment Lands and
Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Mount Pleasant I-1
Amendment and New I-1C District Schedule”;
(ii) to create the new I-1C District Schedule, generally in
accordance with Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary amending by-laws, generally in accordance
with Appendices A and B of the above-noted report, for
consideration at Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT C through F above, be referred to Public
Hearing for consideration along with A.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal
rights for any person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the
risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the
cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the
public hearing shall not obligate the City to enact any
rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving
Officer, shall not in any way be limited or directed in the
exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of when

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 12
they are called upon to exercise such authority or
discretion.
C. THAT Council approve the Mount Pleasant Employment-Intensive
Light Industrial Rezoning Policy and Guidelines (I-1C), generally
as shown in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated October 27,
2020, entitled “Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick
Start Actions: Mount Pleasant I-1 Amendment and New I-1C
District Schedule”.
D. THAT Council amend the Policy on Consideration of Rezoning
Applications and Heritage Revitalization Agreements during
Broadway Planning Process, generally as shown in Appendix D of
the Referral Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled “Employment
Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Mount Pleasant
I-1 Amendment and New I-1C District Schedule”.
E. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the Vancouver Development Cost Levy
By-law be amended generally in accordance with Appendix E of
the Referral Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled “Employment
Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Mount Pleasant
I-1 Amendment and New I-1C District Schedule”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
bring forward the amendment to the Vancouver Development Cost
Levy By-law at the time of enactment of the amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law.
F. THAT, subject to approval of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost
Levy By-law be amended generally in accordance with Appendix F
of the Referral Report dated October 27, 2020, entitled
“Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions:
Mount Pleasant I-1 Amendment and New I-1C District Schedule”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
bring forward the amendment to the Vancouver Utilities
Development Cost Levy By-law at the time of enactment of the
amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06691)
c) Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Downtown-
Eastside/Oppenheimer District Official Development Plan Text Amendment
– Retail Continuity Policy Review for Flexibility of Ground Floor Uses
November 9, 2020
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to make an application to amend the

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 13
Downtown- Eastside/Oppenheimer District Official Development
Plan to expand the exception clause to provide additional flexibility
in uses for storefront spaces at grade in the Downtown Eastside,
generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report
dated November 9, 2020, entitled “Employment Lands and
Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Downtown-
Eastside/Oppenheimer District Official Development Plan Text
Amendment – Retail Continuity Policy Review for Flexibility of
Ground Floor Uses”;
FURTHER THAT the applications be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed
to prepare the necessary amending by-laws, generally in
accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted report, for
consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal
rights for any person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the
risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the
cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the
public hearing shall not obligate the City to enact any
rezoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving
Officer, shall not in any way be limited or directed in the
exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of when
they are called upon to exercise such authority or
discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06692)
d) Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Initial
Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Support Neighbourhood
Grocery Stores
November 10, 2020
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, Sadhu
Johnston, City Manager, and Chris Robertson, Assistant Director, City-Wide and
Regional Planning, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to
questions.

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 14
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT, the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability be instructed to make application to amend the
Zoning and Development By-law, generally as set out in Appendix
A of the Referral Report dated November 10, 2020, entitled
“Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions:
Initial Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Support
Neighbourhood Grocery Stores”, in order to:
a. amend the Additional Regulations for Neighbourhood
Grocery Store in Section 11.24 to (a) remove the
requirement that these stores be “existing as of July 29,
1980”; (b) to clarify that Neighbourhood Grocery Stores are
allowable uses in all RS, RT, and RM districts; and (c) to
authorize additional review of applications for new
neighbourhood grocery stores, generally as set out in
Appendix B of the above-noted report;
b. amend all residential District Schedules, with the exception
of RA-1 and FM-1, to (a) ensure that Neighbourhood
Grocery Store is a permitted use in the schedules; and, (b)
remove the aforementioned date requirements associated
with this use, generally as set out in Appendix B of the
above-noted report;
c. amend and streamline associated dwelling uses for
Neighbourhood Grocery Stores, generally as set out in
Appendix B of the above-noted report.
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to
prepare the necessary by-laws for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal
rights for any person, or obligation on the part of the City
and any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the
risk of the person making the expenditure or incurring the
cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the
public hearing shall not obligate the City to enact any
rezoning by-laws;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving
Officer, shall not in any way be limited or directed in the
exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of when

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 15
they are called upon to exercise such authority or
discretion.
C. THAT Council receive for information an update on the anticipated
next steps associated with advancing neighbourhood grocery
stores and small scale neighbourhood commercial as part of the
Complete, Connected, and Culturally Vibrant Neighbourhoods
program within the Vancouver Plan process.
carried
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council receive the Referral Report dated November 10, 2020, entitled
“Employment Lands and Economy Review Quick Start Actions: Initial Zoning and
Development By-law Amendments to Support Neighbourhood Grocery Stores”, for
information, and direct staff to consider the report as part of the public consultation and
planning process of the Vancouver Plan, including economic analysis on the impacts on
existing C2 neighbourhood shopping areas and the small business recovery from
COVID, and to report back by Q3 2021 on publicly supported options for further Council
consideration, including for quick starts if appropriate.
LOST (Vote No. 06698)
(Councillors Boyle, Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart
opposed)
The amendment having lost, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 06700) with
Councillors Carr and Hardwick opposed.
2. Zoning and Development By-Law Amendments for Mass Timber Construction
October 26, 2020
THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law to introduce a
definition for mass timber building, and variances to regulations for height, yards,
setbacks, site coverage, building depth, and external design to provide more flexibility to
enable mass timber projects, as generally set out in Appendix A of the Referral Report
dated October 26, 2020, entitled “Zoning and Development By-law Amendments for
Mass Timber Construction”, and that the application be referred to Public Hearing;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted report, for
consideration at Public Hearing.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06693)

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 16
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council enact the by-law as listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 6
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
LOST (Vote No. 06701)
(Councillors Boyle, Bligh, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson,
Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be extended past 5 pm in order to complete remainder of the items
on the agenda.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06705)
(Councillor Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
* * * * *
Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart advised they had
reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 18 and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 5 and 7 to 23 inclusive,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 regarding Change of Use Permits for Small
Storefronts (By-law No. 12820)
2. A By-law to amend Regional Context Statement Official Development Plan By-law
No. 10789 regarding 1580 Vernon Drive (By-law No. 12821)
3. A By-law to amend Mountain View Cemetery By-law No. 8719 regarding 2021 Mountain
View Cemetery fees and charges (By-law No. 12822)
4. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property regarding
1215 West 16th Avenue (Baldwin Residence) (By-law No. 12823)
5. A By-law to amend Sign By-law regarding 631-635 Commercial Drive
(By-law No. 12824)

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 17
6. A By-law to further amend the Mayor and Councillor Remuneration By-law regarding
2020 remuneration - LOST
7. A By-law to amend Building By-law No. 12511 to increase fees for 2021 (By-law
No. 12825)
8. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development Fee By-law No. 5585 regarding fees for
2021 (By-law No. 12826)
9. A By-law to amend Electrical By-law No. 5563 regarding fees for 2021 (By-law
No. 12827)
10. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 regarding fees for 2021 (By-law
No. 12828)
11. A By-law to amend Gas Fitting By-law No. 3507 regarding fees for 2021 (By-law
No. 12829)
12. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 regarding fees for 2021 (By-law
No. 12830)
13. A By-law to amend Secondary Suite Inspection Fee By-law No. 6553 regarding fees for
2021 (By-law No. 12831)
14. A By-law to amend Sign Fee By-law No. 11880 regarding fees for 2021 (By-law
No. 12832)
15. A By-law to amend Miscellaneous Fees By-law No. 5664 regarding fees for 2021
(By-law No. 12833)
16. A By-law to amend Protection of Trees By-law No. 9958 regarding fees for 2021 (By-law
No. 12834)
17. A By-law to amend the Green Demolition By-law No. 11023 regarding fees for 2021
(By-law No. 12835)
18. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 regarding 5190-5226 Cambie Street (By-law No. 12836)
(Councillors Fry, Hardwick and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
19. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3493 Commercial Street (By-law No. 12837)
20. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1956-1990 Stainsbury Avenue (By-law
No. 12838)
21. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2538 Birch Street (By-law No. 12839)
22. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1649 East Broadway (By-law No. 12840)
23. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2601-2619 East Hastings Street (By-law
No. 12841)

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 18
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development - 420 Hawks Avenue
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 420 Hawks Avenue
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2020-
00468, prepared by Boni-Maddison Architects., and stamped “Received, Community
Services Group, Development Services”, on June 23, 2020, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Approval of Form of Development - 6137 Cambie Street
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 6137 Cambie Street
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2018-
00045, prepared by GBL Architects, and stamped “Received, Community Services
Group, Development Services”, on June 17, 2019, provided that the Director of Planning
may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect
either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06706)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
3. Approval of Form of Development - 8636 – 8656 Oak Street
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 8636 – 8656 Oak
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-
2019-00997, prepared by W.T. Leung Architects Inc. and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on December 19, 2019, provided
that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06707)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 19
4. Approval of Form of Development - 1805 Larch Street
Theresa O’Donnell, Deputy Director, Current Planning, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, provided an overview of the form of development at 1805 Larch Street, and along
with Angele Clarke, Planner II, Housing Policy and Regulation, Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1805 Larch Street
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2020-
00385, prepared by Metric Architecture and stamped “Received, Community Services
Group, Development Services”, on June 16, 2020, provided that the Director of Planning
may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect
either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED (Vote No. 6708)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillors Bligh and Swanson abstained from the vote)
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Protecting Tenants from Real Estate Investment Trusts
This item was withdrawn at the request of Councillor Swanson.
2. Petition for the Removal of the Alma Street Building Line
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
WHEREAS
1. Council has received a petition from 7 owners with properties along the west side
of Alma Street between 4th Avenue and Point Grey Road to remove the Alma
Street Building Line north of 4th Avenue;
2. Building lines as described in Section 14 of the Zoning and Development By-law.
Building lines were typically adopted for transportation and surface utility
purposes, such as for:
• Sidewalk widening,
• Road widening,
• Turn bays,
• Cycling facilities,
• Transit facilities,
• Tree planting, or
• Landscaping and green infrastructure;

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 20
3. The west side of Alma Street, north of 4th Avenue has a building line, as defined
in the Zoning and Development Bylaw, and as part of the Point Grey Road
improvements, has functionally changed from an arterial street to a local street;
and
4. Local streets typically have less requirement for road width than arterial streets.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to review the Alma Street
Building line north of 4th Avenue, with a consideration of the important transportation
and planning initiatives underway;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back no later than July 31, 2021.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion entitled “Petition for the Removal of the Alma Street Building Line” be
referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
Wednesday, November 25, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Sustaining Vancouver’s Chinatown
* * * * *
At 5:31 pm, Councillor Wiebe rose to declare a conflict of interest on this item as he is a director
with the Easy Park Board.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. COVID-19 has had significant negative economic impact including on small
businesses and neighbourhoods across Vancouver (due to closure periods,
physical distancing requirements and costs of additional cleaning and safety
protocols). A full economic recovery from COVID-19 is expected to take some
time, likely years;
2. Vancouver’s Chinatown is a cultural gem. Considered the largest Chinatown in
Canada, it has been a designated National Historic Site since June 2010.
Chinatown was established even prior to the incorporation of the City of
Vancouver. It is a community that has weathered two world wars – with Chinese
Canadians fighting for a country in which they could not vote, race riots -- spurred
on by anti-Asian sentiment, and discriminatory policies from all three levels of
government, including the Chinese head tax, a freeway that would have paved
over Chinatown, and even a federal order to ban the sale of delectable Chinese
barbecued meats;

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 21
In recent years, Chinatown has been facing new challenges from the changing
demographics of residents, to developmental pressures, as well as safety
concerns related to its adjacency to the DTES, the epicenter of Vancouver’s
mental health and addictions crisis and housing crisis;
3. Despite these adversities, Chinatown has persevered. There has been
resurgence in interest in Chinatown with new shops and restaurants opening and
inducing new and returning visitors, and a Cantonese language school organized
by Youth Collaborative for Chinatown in partnership with the Wong’s Benevolent
Association, aimed reaching youth and adults eager to reconnect with their
heritage. The community old and young are impassioned about protecting and
preserving the rich, cultural legacy of Chinatown and its unique characteristics,
whether it is food, arts, cultural heritage, language or more;
4. In April 2018, City Council officially apologized to the Chinese Canadian
community, recognizing the historical discrimination against Chinese People in
Vancouver, and committed to conserving, commemorating, and enhancing the
living heritage and cultural assets of the community. The Chinatown Legacy
Stewardship Group was appointed by Council to advise the City on specific
actions in order to carry out that commitment;
5. Over the past months however, the unprecedented COVID pandemic as well as
worsening conditions in the DTES due to the ongoing opioid health and housing
crisis, are threatening that living heritage and many businesses and arts
organizations in Chinatown were forced to shut down. Although businesses all
across Canada have been impacted, Chinatown merchants were especially hard
hit due to the majority of them not being able to access Federal COVID
assistance including the wage subsidy being microbusinesses (Mom & Pop
Shops) that didn’t have staff other than themselves, and landlords unilaterally not
applying for rental subsidies (often the landlord or tenant not qualifying
themselves);
6. In fact, according to a preliminary report from City Staff, vacancy rates in
Chinatown have increased by 23.7 percent compared to before the pandemic.
Vacancy rates now stand at 17 percent relative to the Vancouver city wide
average of 10 percent vacancies;
7. In addition to economic challenges, a reduction in foot traffic related to the
pandemic as well as the increased impacts of social disorder has led to a
troubling perception of Chinatown as an unsafe and unkempt neighbourhood,
hindering economic survival and recovery in the community;
8. Without immediate action, more than 700 small businesses and arts and culture
organizations that operate in Chinatown are at risk. Many are culturally relevant
or legacy businesses such as the community hub Goldstone Bakery and
Restaurant which recently closed after 30+ years of operation. These businesses
are what make Chinatown; their character and customs which take place at these
culturally relevant small businesses and arts organizations constitute the unique
qualities of Chinatown that are considered to be intangible, living cultural heritage
that will soon be lost forever and upon which the contemplated UNESCO World
Heritage Site designation hinges;

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 22
9. It is imperative that the City take action now to protect and conserve the unique
characteristics of Chinatown to help create a welcoming and safe place for
people to enjoy and visit building upon the recent Council motion that called upon
the Federal Government for a Targeted COVID-19 Funding Program for
Vancouver’s Chinatown to provide financial support for local, small businesses,
and cultural and arts organizations;
10. A broad number of groups have come together to advocate for these measures
including the Vancouver Chinatown Legacy Stewardship Group, Vancouver Dr.
Sun Yat-Sen Classical Chinese Garden, Chinese Cultural Centre of Vancouver,
Vancouver Chinatown Merchants Association, Vancouver Chinatown BIA,
Chinatown Plaza Tenants Association, SUCCESS, Chinatown Foundation, and
Strathcona BIA; and
11. The Chinatown Community Stewardship Program is run by EMBERS Eastside
Works and supported by the City of Vancouver through the Chinatown
Transformation Team and in consultation with Chinatown businesses and some
of the concerned groups listed above. Community Stewards are hired from DTES
residents facing barriers to employment to provide a peer approach to de-
escalation and public realm improvements, and facilitate a safe and inclusive
community. This program complements existing security and safety work by the
BIA and CPC. From April 2020 until September, some highlights of their work
during COVID-19 includes:
a. Loss prevention, de-escalation, crisis intervention and removal of almost
15,000 needles from storefronts;
b. Responding to over 140 calls for assistance by local businesses; and
c. Over 950 street and storefront interactions.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council work to reduce barriers to visiting Chinatown by directing staff to
include as part of proposed December staff report on meter rate changes for
2021, information on the fee structure and pricing rationale for metered parking in
Chinatown relative to other neighbourhoods in the City of Vancouver, with the
goal of ensuring they are as competitive as possible while still meeting traffic
management goals for turnover and mode share;
FURTHER THAT staff review and prioritize opportunities to reduce barriers to
active transportation and public transit access to Chinatown, including secure
bicycle and e-bike locking areas, and clean safe bus stops.
B. THAT Council direct staff to engage with EasyPark to discuss the potential for an
incentive program for the Chinatown Plaza Parkade for visitors who patronize
local Chinatown businesses, recognizing that the lot is currently underutilized;
FURTHER THAT staff engage with EasyPark to consider installation of free
indoor bicycle and e-bike racks, considering lessons and best practices from
Lot 31, (Water Street).

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 23
C. THAT Council prioritize health, cleanliness and safety in Chinatown by bringing
forward options as part of the 2021 budget process to increase street, alley and
sidewalk cleaning and sanitation by City of Vancouver Streets & Engineering, as
well as well as options through the 2021 budget process to expand and enhance
the Community Stewards Program from the current single team that is funded.
D. THAT Council direct staff to consider and report back on options for a pilot
simplified and temporary Merchandise Display Permit fee structure and program,
to facilitate outdoor shopping, installation of contactless merchandise drop-off
and pick-up zones, and queueing spaces for Chinatown to encourage physical
distancing, street animation and placemaking for street-facing businesses.
FURTHER THAT results of this pilot be used to inform potential city-wide
implementation for retail businesses and shopping.
E. THAT Council direct REFM to work with Chinatown Transformation Team and
Legacy Stewardship Group with engagement of the larger Chinatown community,
to prepare an expedited, innovative tenanting and activation strategy for the
City-owned Chinatown Plaza (106 Keefer Street) with the goal of creating a
vibrant hub in this historic neighbourhood that also enables ongoing
programming and placemaking.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion entitled “Sustaining Vancouver’s Chinatown” be referred to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on Wednesday,
November 25, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
At 5:32 pm, Mayor Stewart relinquished the Chair to Deputy Mayor Dominato, in order to
introduce the following motion.
* * * * *
4. Work with Senior Governments to Address the Overdose Crisis
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The overdose crisis continues to claim many lives, with 1,536 deaths in
Vancouver since a Provincial Overdose Emergency was declared in April 2016,

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 24
and an estimated 328 overdose deaths in the City of Vancouver this year to date,
putting 2020 on track to be the worst year yet;
2. The COVID-19 pandemic has further isolated drug users, impacted access to
harm reduction services, and fueled greater toxicity within the illicit drug supply;
3. Premier Horgan wrote to Prime Minister Trudeau on July 20, 2020, asking the
federal government to decriminalize personal possession of all psychoactive
substances, as a necessary next step to reduce the stigma associated with
substance use and encourage people at risk to access lifesaving harm reduction
and treatment services;
4. The Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police agree that decriminalization of
simple possession is an effective way to reduce public health and public safety
harms associated with substance use and endorses alternatives to criminal
sanctions for simple possession of illicit drugs;
5. Vancouver Coastal Health’s (VCH) Chief Medical Health Officer Dr. Patricia Daly
and Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry have called for the
decriminalization of personal possession of illegal substances, as an urgent and
necessary next step to addressing the overdose crisis;
6. The PIVOT Legal Society, Canadian Drug Policy Coalition, and Canadian
HIV/AIDS Legal Network recently wrote to the Federal Ministers of Health, Public
Safety and Emergency Preparedness, and Justice and Attorney General to urge
their government to use all available tools to decriminalize simple drug
possession;
7. Decriminalization is a step toward addressing anti-Black, anti-poor, and colonial
policing at this time; and
8. Vancouver is in a unique position to move forward with decriminalization within its
municipal borders, in a coordinated partnership with the Vancouver Police
Department and Vancouver Coastal Health Authority
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct the Mayor to consult with the VCH
Chief Medical Health Officer and then write to the federal Ministers of Health, Public
Safety and Emergency Preparedness, and Justice and Attorney General to request a
federal exemption from the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act to decriminalize
personal possession of illicit substances within the City’s boundaries for medical
purposes, in order to address urgent public health concerns caused by the overdose
crisis and COVID-19;
FURTHER THAT the Mayor write to all other B.C. local governments urging them to
consider pursuing a federal exemption from the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act to
decriminalize personal possession of illicit substances within their municipal boundaries;
AND FURTHER THAT the Mayor write to the Union of BC Municipalities and the
Federation of Canadian Municipalities seeking their support for decriminalizing personal
possession of illicit substances.
referred

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 25
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the motion entitled “Work with Senior Governments to Address the Overdose
Crisis” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
Wednesday, November 25, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
At 5:39 pm, Mayor Stewart resumed the Chair at the conclusion of this item.
* * * * *
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Turning the Key: Encouraging Affordable Home Ownership in the City of
Vancouver
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of December 8, 2020, as a
Council Member’s Motion.
2. Childcare That Works: Extended Hour and Around-the-Clock Childcare for
Working Families in Vancouver
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of December 8, 2020, as a
Council Member’s Motion.
3. Ensuring People with Health and Mobility Issues Have Protection and Support
When Elevators Break Down
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of December 8, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
4. Aligning Cannabis License Fee Structure to Support Vancouver Businesses
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of December 8, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
5. Improving Street Lighting in Vancouver
Councillor Dominato submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of December 8, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.

Council Meeting
Minutes, November 24, 2020 26
6. Eliminating Rats in the City of Vancouver
Councillor Hardwick submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of December 8, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on Wednesday, December 16, 2020, from 3:30 pm to 5:30 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06709)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Alignment of Occupant Load in Vancouver Fire By-law and BC Fire Code
Councillor Kirby-Yung requested an update in timing of the alignment of occupant load in the
Vancouver Fire By-law with the BC Fire Code in light of COVID physical distancing restrictions
as there have been enquiries from the hospitality industry. Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager,
agreed to provide a response.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 5:43 pm.
* * * * *