REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
SEPTEMBER 16, 29, AND 30, 2020
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, September 16, 2020, at 9:34 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
Due to time constraints, the meeting reconvened on Tuesday, September 29, 2020, at 3:34 pm.
Subsequently, the meeting also reconvened on Wednesday, September 30, 2020 at 1:08 pm.
This Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law and Vancouver Charter and the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, updated Ministerial
Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova, Chair*
Mayor Kennedy Stewart* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business from
10:30-11:30 am – September 16, 2020; and Leave of Absence for
Civic Business from 1-3 pm – September 30, 2020)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle* (Leave of Absence for Civic Business from 1-
3 pm – September 30, 2020)
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry, Vice-Chair
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson* (Medical Leave 8:39 pm onward –
September 16, 2020)
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 2
1. 2019 – 2022 Capital Plan Recalibration
September 4, 2020
Patrice Impey, General Manager, Finance, Risk & Supply Chain Management, and Grace
Cheng, Director, Long-term Financial Strategy & Planning, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain
Management, introduced the item and along with the Lon LaClaire, General Manager,
Engineering Services, the City Manager, and staff from Real Estate and Facilities Planning, as
well as the Vancouver Park Board, responded to questions.
On September 16, 2020, at 10:27 am, during questions to staff, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee enter into a second round of questions to staff on Item 1
“2019-2022 Capital Plan Recalibration”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
On September 16, 2020, the Committee recessed at 11:31 am and reconvened at 3:28 pm.
* * * * *
On September 16, 2020, the Committee heard from two speakers opposed to Item 1.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve the recalibrated 2019-2022 Capital Plan generally as outlined in
Appendix A of the Report dated September 4, 2020, entitled “2019-2022 Capital Plan
Recalibration”, and summarized as follows:

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 3
Original Changes Capital plan Proposed Capital plan
$ millions capital plan approved BEFORE recalibration AFTER
(July 2018) to date recalibration changes recalibration
Affordable housing 540 29 569 15 584
Childcare 123 34 158 - 158
Parks & open spaces 264 4 269 (43) 225
Arts & culture 184 5 189 (58) 131
Community facilities 235 8 243 (13) 230
Public safety 48 0 48 40 88
Civic facilities & equipment 108 3 112 (5) 106
Transportation & street use 311 15 326 (10) 315
One water 616 1 617 (114) 503
Solid waste 92 3 95 (3) 92
Renewable energy 41 14 56 (2) 53
Technology 100 0 100 4 105
Overhead 20 - 20 - 20
Emerging priorities 88 - 88 (65) 23
Total 2,771 118 2,889 (254) 2,635
Subtotal city-led 2,203 116 2,319 (261) 2,058
Subtotal developer-led 569 1 570 6 576
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the following be added to the end:
FURTHER THAT Staff schedule a Council workshop in Q4 2020 to participate in
further reprioritization of Capital Projects.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06355)
(Councillors Boyle and Carr opposed)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the following be added as B:
THAT Council support in principle increased investment in public washrooms, in
line with Council’s previous recognition of washrooms as a human right, and that
Council request staff bring back recommendations for increasing capital and
operating investments in universal and accessible public washrooms as part of
2021 budget process.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06356)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following clauses be added to the end of B:
THAT Council direct staff to defer the archives relocation and renewal project
($17M) in the 2019-2022 Capital Plan.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 4
THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council on options to reallocate
funding within the capital envelope so that the sidewalk program, traffic signal
program and street lighting programs are not deferred in scope.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the phrase “in the 2019-2022 Capital Plan” be struck and replaced with the phrase
“to the next Capital Plan.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06357)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06358). Subsequently, the motion as amended was put
and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06360) with Councillor Hardwick abstaining from the
vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve the recalibrated 2019-2022 Capital Plan generally as outlined
in Appendix A of the Report dated September 4, 2020, entitled “2019-2022 Capital
Plan Recalibration”, and summarized as follows:
Original Changes Capital plan Proposed Capital plan
$ millions capital plan approved BEFORE recalibration AFTER
(July 2018) to date recalibration changes recalibration
Affordable housing 540 29 569 15 584
Childcare 123 34 158 - 158
Parks & open spaces 264 4 269 (43) 225
Arts & culture 184 5 189 (58) 131
Community facilities 235 8 243 (13) 230
Public safety 48 0 48 40 88
Civic facilities & equipment 108 3 112 (5) 106
Transportation & street use 311 15 326 (10) 315
One water 616 1 617 (114) 503
Solid waste 92 3 95 (3) 92
Renewable energy 41 14 56 (2) 53
Technology 100 0 100 4 105
Overhead 20 - 20 - 20
Emerging priorities 88 - 88 (65) 23
Total 2,771 118 2,889 (254) 2,635
Subtotal city-led 2,203 116 2,319 (261) 2,058
Subtotal developer-led 569 1 570 6 576
FURTHER THAT Staff schedule a Council workshop in Q4 2020 to participate in
further reprioritization of Capital Projects.
B. THAT Council support in principle increased investment in public washrooms, in line
with Council’s previous recognition of washrooms as a human right, and that Council
request staff bring back recommendations for increasing capital and operating
investments in universal and accessible public washrooms as part of 2021 budget
process;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 5
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to defer the archives relocation and renewal
project ($17M) to the next Capital Plan.
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council on options to
reallocate funding within the capital envelope so that the sidewalk program, traffic
signal program and street lighting programs are not deferred in scope.
2. Granville Bridge Connector and Drake Street Improvements
September 4, 2020
Lon LaClaire, General Manager, Engineering Services, along with Paul Storer, Director of
Transportation, Engineering Services, provided a presentation and responded to questions on
the above-noted item.
* * * * *
On September 16, 2020, at 4:58 pm, during the staff presentation, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the meeting be extended past 5 pm to complete the staff presentation for item 2.
“Granville Bridge Connector and Drake Street Improvements”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
On September 16, 2020, the Committee recessed at 5:35 pm and reconvened 6:42 pm.
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT after the dinner break, the Committee continue with item 2, “Granville Bridge
Connector and Drake Street Improvements”, including hearing from speakers, debate
and decision, and then proceed with item 5, “Extending Pop-Up Patios This Fall and
Winter and Making Pop-Up Patios a Part of Every Summer in Vancouver”.
FURTHER THAT Council recess Committee and refer items 3, 4, 6 and 7 to Tuesday,
September 29, 2020 at 3:30 pm.
carried

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 6
On September 16, 2020, at 6:48 pm, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee Call the Vote on Councillor Dominato’s motion to vary the agenda
and referral.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
The Call to Vote having carried, the motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY with
Councillor De Genova absent for the vote.
Note: For clarity, the Minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
On September 16, 2020, at 7:25 pm, during questions to staff it was,
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee enter into a second round of questions to staff on item 2, “Granville
Bridge Connector and Drake Street Improvements”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
On September 16, 2020, the Committee heard from four speakers in support and six speakers
in opposition to the recommendations.
On September 16, 2020, at 8:43 pm, after hearing from speakers, it was,
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council refer debate and decision on item 2, “Granville Bridge Connector and
Drake Street Improvements” to the reconvening Standing Committee on City Finance
and Services meeting on Tuesday, September 29, 2020, at 3:30 pm.
carried
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting type, date and time be struck and replaced with the next Council
meeting on October 6, 2020, as Unfinished Business.
withdrawn
Following further discussion, Councillor Carr requested to withdraw the amendment and the
Committee so agreed.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 7
The amendment having been withdrawn, the motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Vote No. 06367) with Councillor De Genova abstaining from the vote and Councillor Swanson
absent for the vote due to medical leave.
5. Extending Pop-Up Patios this fall and winter and Making Pop-Up Patios a Part of
Every Summer in Vancouver
At the Council meeting on September 15, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the
standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 16, 2020, in order to
hear from speakers.
Prior to the start of item 5, Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest for this item as he has
multiple interests in establishments with patios and would benefit from the motion. Councillor
Wiebe left the meeting at 8:51 pm and did not return for the duration of the meeting on
September 16, 2020.
On September 16, 2020, the Committee heard from 11 speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. At the Standing Committee of Council on Finance and City Services on May 13,
2020, Council unanimously approved the motion Flexible, Innovative and
Expedited Patio Permitting;
2. The motion was a direct recognition of the devastating economic impact the
Covid-19 pandemic has inflicted on the City’s restaurant sector (due to closure
periods, physical distancing requirements and the costs of additional cleaning
and safety protocols) noting that many small business operators were struggling
to survive;
3. Through the Temporary Expedited Patio Program that launched June 1 in
response to the motion, 361 permits had been issued as of August 14th, including
291 patios on public space and 70 patios on privately owned space. Eight
permits were also issued for craft brewery patios, a first in Vancouver as patios
for breweries with a lounge endorsement had never been allowed. And finally,
nine pop-up plazas were created in partnership with local businesses and
Business Improvement Associations in neighbourhoods across the City, giving
people places to be, to gather, to rest and room to eat;
4. Pop-up patios have supported our local economy, enhanced our social fabric and
the vitality of placemaking in our City. The Temporary Expedited Patio Program
that included free permits for local businesses is slated to conclude October 31,
2020;
5. The Covid-19 pandemic response remains in full force. Many restaurants will be
under further duress in the coming months as cooler weather arrives. A late
August survey from Restaurants Canada and the Canadian Chamber of

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 8
Commerce advised that over half of restaurants could face bankruptcy in the next
90 days, and that closure of patios would be a blow reducing needed capacity.
Employment in the sector is at record lows, and would be further decimated by
closures;
6. Also, with Fall and Winter upon us, many residents are facing increased social
isolation without the ability to be outdoors as much. Many residents are still
reluctant to dine indoors at restaurants but many are expressing interest in an
extended patio season;
7. The City has prioritized winter patio initiatives before flexing its policies in
response to circumstances such as the 2010 Olympic Winter Games when semi-
enclosed patios were allowed;
8. The responsiveness demonstrated by the City of Vancouver to adapt its policies
so quickly to support small business has been a lifeline for the sector and
demonstrated what a positive economic and social impact the City can have
when regulations and permitting are streamlined and expedited, and we are more
creative with public space;
9. A full economic recovery from Covid-19 is expected to take some time, likely
years, with no firm date for a vaccine in sight;
10. Summer is a busy season for many Vancouver restaurants. In ‘normal’ years or
pre-Covid times, there has been a shortage of patio space where people can
enjoy healthy and fun outdoor dining; and
11. Public response has been incredibly positive with many people commenting on
the vibrancy pop-up patios have brought to neighbourhoods by prioritizing people
and lifestyle in Vancouver’s public space. Not reverting to the ‘old normal’ but
instead building on the innovation can be a positive legacy for Vancouver in the
move towards a more vibrant and people-focused City and to operating in a new,
post-COVID world.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to extend the Temporary Expedited Patio Program
(TEPP), that included free permits for local businesses, beyond October 31,
2020, into this coming Fall and Winter.
B. THAT extension of the Temporary Expedited Patio Program (TEPP) into this Fall
and Winter include allowance for the provision of heat sources (with priority for
electric but acceptance of propane options for this Covid response period) as
well as use of roof shelters or awnings or secured tents for weather protection (in
consultation with Vancouver Fire & Rescue Services and consideration of
accepting sign-off of structures by an independent engineer or architect) that still
provide for free airflow to support healthy dining.
C. THAT staff share the economic recovery, public and mental health imperative to
continue the Temporary Expedited Patio Program (TEPP) into this coming Fall
and Winter with the Province of BC, and request a continuation of the blanket

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 9
extension given by the Province to the TEPP for expanded outdoor liquor service
within current operators’ existing allowable liquor seat allocations.
D. THAT Council direct staff to investigate the inclusion of roof shelters or awnings
or secured tents for weather protection on the pop-up plazas that were launched
in neighbourhoods across the City, and have provided valued, free commons-
style gathering and eating spaces, in order to enable them to continue to be
enjoyed by the public this coming Fall and Winter.
E. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the results and learnings from the
summer’s Temporary Expedited Patio Program by the end of 2020 (including but
not limited to info such as number and type of permits issued, response,
challenges, the use of public and private space, accessibility considerations, etc.)
as well as options for continuing a Pop-Up Summer Seasonal Patio Program
annually.
F. THAT Council direct staff to report back on allowing patios for breweries that
currently hold a lounge endorsement within the City of Vancouver on an ongoing
basis, including any considerations for aligning with Provincial guidelines in order
to streamline the different permit processes required by the City and the
Province.
G. THAT Council direct staff to report back on continuing with the creation and
expansion of pop-up plazas in more neighbourhoods across the City that provide
free, commons-style gathering and eating spaces (ensuring they are accessible
to those who use wheelchairs, mobility scooters and other mobility devices and in
consultation with Business Improvement Associations) as part of Vancouver’s
rethink of public space use in a new post-pandemic world.
H. THAT staff consult with the Province of BC to share the positive response to the
Temporary Expedited Patio Program, and to explore the most effective way for
the City of Vancouver to work with the Province for expedite provincial approvals
for expanded outdoor liquor service within current operators’ existing allowable
liquor seat allocations to enable an ongoing, annual Pop-Up Summer Seasonal
Patio Program in continued support of placemaking, vibrant neighbourhoods and
small business.
carried
On September 16, 2020, at 9:43 pm, after hearing from speakers, it was
REFERRAL MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the Committee refer debate and decision for item 5, “Extending Pop-Up Patios
This Fall and Winter and Making Pop-Up Patios a Part of Every Summer in Vancouver”,
to a Special Council meeting on Friday, September 18, 2020 at 3 pm.
lost

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 10
On September 16, 2020, at 9:48 pm, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee Call the Vote on Mayor Stewart’s referral motion on item 5.
CARRIED AND BY THE
REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06368)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Swanson absent for the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
The Call to Vote having carried, the motion was put and LOST (Vote No. 06369) with
Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed, Councillors
De Genova and Fry abstaining from the vote, Councillor Swanson absent for the vote, and
Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest.
* * * * *
On September 16, 2020, at 9:52 pm, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee Call the Vote on item 5, “Extending Pop-Up Patios This fall and
winter and Making Pop-Up Patios a Part of Every summer in Vancouver”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06370)
(Councillor Swanson absent for the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
The Call to Vote having carried, the motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.
06371) with Councillor Swanson absent for the vote, and Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote
due to conflict of interest.
On September 16, 2020, at 9:53 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recess until September 29, 2020, at 3:30 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On September 16, 2020, the Committee recessed at 9:54 pm and
reconvened on September 29, 2020, at 3:34 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 11
2. Granville Bridge Connector and Drake Street Improvements
September 4, 2020
On Wednesday, September 16, 2020, the Committee heard from speakers on the following item
and referred debate and decision to Tuesday, September 29, 2020.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council endorse the long-term design concepts for the Granville Bridge
Connector and for Drake Street, as generally described in Appendices A and B,
of the Report dated September 4, 2020, entitled “Granville Bridge Connector and
Drake Street Improvements”, respectively, subject to funding availability and
prioritization in future capital plans;
B. THAT Council approve detailed design and construction of the interim Granville
Bridge Connector, as described in Appendix C, of the Report dated
September 4, 2020, entitled “Granville Bridge Connector and Drake Street
Improvements”, to be included in the 2019-2022 Capital Plan for an approximate
cost of $12.5M, including a Multi-Year Capital Project Budget of $1,000,000 to
complete the detailed design of the interim Connector; and
C. THAT Council approve the construction of the interim Drake Street
Improvements, as part of the 2019-2022 Capital Plan as described in Appendix C
of the Report dated September 4, 2020, entitled “Granville Bridge Connector and
Drake Street Improvements”.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the following be added to the end as D:
THAT Council direct staff to seek the necessary funding, through senior levels of
government, and/or opportunities in the 2019-2022 Capital Plan to incorporate
means prevention fencing into the first phase of the project, or as soon as
possible.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06376)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung abstained from the vote)
On September 29, 2020, at 3:43 pm, prior to the vote on the amendment, Councillor Kirby-Yung
rose on a Point of Order under section 8.4 as the proposed amendment seemed frivolous to
work already being done. The Chair ruled against the Point of Order, stating the amendment is
in order.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 12
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added to the end as E:
THAT Council direct staff to prioritize the South-West Granville Loop for public
green space.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the word “for” be deleted and replace with “to include and support”;
FURTHER THAT the phrase “through concurrent planning processes for the area” be
added to the end.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06377)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06378). Subsequently, the motion as amended was put
and CARRIED with Councillor Hardwick opposed (Vote No. 06379).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council endorse the long-term design concepts for the Granville Bridge
Connector and for Drake Street, as generally described in Appendices A and B,
of the Report dated September 4, 2020, entitled “Granville Bridge Connector and
Drake Street Improvements”, respectively, subject to funding availability and
prioritization in future capital plans.
B. THAT Council approve detailed design and construction of the interim Granville
Bridge Connector, as described in Appendix C, of the Report dated
September 4, 2020, entitled “Granville Bridge Connector and Drake Street
Improvements”, to be included in the 2019-2022 Capital Plan for an approximate
cost of $12.5M, including a Multi-Year Capital Project Budget of $1,000,000 to
complete the detailed design of the interim Connector.
C. THAT Council approve the construction of the interim Drake Street
Improvements, as part of the 2019-2022 Capital Plan as described in Appendix C
of the Report dated September 4, 2020, entitled “Granville Bridge Connector and
Drake Street Improvements”.
D. THAT Council direct staff to seek the necessary funding, through senior levels of
government, and/or opportunities in the 2019-2022 Capital Plan to incorporate
means prevention fencing into the first phase of the project, or as soon as
possible.
E. THAT Council direct staff to prioritize the South-West Granville Loop to include
and support public green space through concurrent planning processes for the
area.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 13
3. Enabling Creative and Easily Replicated “Missing Middle” Housing Pilots
At the Council meeting on July 21, 2020, Council referred the above-noted motion to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on July 22, 2020, in order to hear
from speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, Council referred the motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 16, 2020, where the
motion was further referred to the reconvening Standing Committee on City Finance and
Services meeting on September 29, 2020, for debate and decision and to hear from speakers.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. It is the Mission of the City of Vancouver to create a great city of communities
that cares about its people, the environment, and opportunities to live, work, and
prosper;
2. Among the six core values that guide the City’s Mission are the values of
“Responsiveness,” whereby the City is responsive to the needs of citizens and
our City colleagues, and “Excellence,” whereby we strive for the best results;
3. There is a significant equity problem and mismatch between our land use
regulations and our local incomes: roughly 60% of the City of Vancouver’s land
base is currently zoned RS-1 for single detached housing, a form of development
that is affordable to only roughly 5% of households based on Greater Vancouver
incomes;
4. The City of Vancouver uses community plans to provide clear but flexible
frameworks to guide positive change and development in neighbourhoods over a
period of approximately 20 – 30 years. Community plans are policy documents
that provide guidance and direction on a variety of topics, from land use and
urban design, to housing, transportation, and community facilities. A community
plan also recognizes aspects of the community valued by its citizens and
addresses the specific issues and initiatives of each community area. Each
community plan considers long-range and shorter-term goals, and works within
broader objectives established for the entire city and at regional and provincial
levels;
5. The 2012 Mayor’s Task Force on Housing Affordability co-chaired by Olga Ilich,
along with the Report from the Round table on Building Form and Design (the
Geller Report), pointed to the need to increase the supply of different types of
housing, particularly for families with children. The 2012 report recommended
identifying opportunities to add ground-oriented medium density housing forms
such as townhouses, row houses or stacked townhouses in low-density
residential areas;
6. The Mayor’s Task Force on Housing Affordability report also encouraged the
creative use of underutilized city land, such as streets, to enable affordable,
ground-oriented medium density housing forms;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 14
7. At the November 29, 2017, meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on
Policy and Strategic Priorities, the previous Council approved the Housing
Vancouver Strategy (2018 – 2027), including Appendices A and B of the
Administrative Report dated November 15, 2017, entitled “Housing Vancouver
Strategy (2018 - 2027) and 3-Year Action Plan (2018 - 2020)”, as the basis for
addressing Vancouver’s housing affordability crisis, with direction to staff to
proceed with next steps towards implementation;
8. A key objective of the Housing Vancouver Strategy is a shift toward the right
supply of housing to meet the needs of people who live and work in Vancouver.
To meet the right supply targets, the City is continually looking at new
opportunities to add housing choice across the city in low-density
neighbourhoods as a key building block of a future city-wide plan. The aim is to
deliver housing that falls into the “missing middle” between single-family homes
and higher density apartments;
9. The intent of the Housing Vancouver Strategy is to provide a strong foundation
for the future in Vancouver and for Vancouver to be a place where:
• Neighbourhoods are full of families;
• Young people can afford to buy a home; and
• People of all incomes and backgrounds can participate in their
communities;
10. In May 2018, City Staff embarked on a Regulation Redesign project to simplify
the City’s land use regulatory framework in order to improve permit processing –
consistent with a corporate priority in the City’s 2019 Corporate Plan (Goal 1C –
Excellent Service) and consistent with a key regulatory framework action item in
the Housing Vancouver strategy;
11. The key objectives of Regulation Redesign is to:
• simplify regulations;
• reconcile competing objectives;
• improve consistency between by-laws and policies;
• ensure land use policies and regulations advance City priorities; and
• improve external and internal communication;
12. At the June 20, 2018, meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy on
Strategic Priorities, the previous Council endorsed a proposed program outlined
in the Making Room Housing Program presentation dated June 19, 2018 (Making
Room Housing Program: Overview and Quick Start Actions, June 5, 2018). The
Making Room Housing Program was created to address a key objective of the
Housing Vancouver Strategy, namely, to add housing choice to neighbourhoods
across Vancouver;
13. Following the October 20, 2018, municipal election, the newly-elected Council
requested that staff focus planning efforts on initiating a City-wide Plan. As a
result, the Making Room Housing Program was transitioned from being an
independent planning program focused on adding housing choice to low density

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 15
neighbourhoods into a broader integrated planning effort to create complete
communities as part of the work of the City-wide Plan;
14. While the City of Vancouver has many plans and policies for communities,
housing, transportation, and infrastructure, the City currently does not have a
master plan that sets the direction for the entire city. The Vancouver Plan (i.e.,
City-wide Plan) is intended to help unify all of the City’s existing plans, and
prioritize future directions for the city we want to become, with an
acknowledgement that the choices we make today will have a large impact on
future generations and that without a clear vision, our daily decisions and policies
may not lead us in a direction that we, as a city, desire;
15. At the May 15, 2019, meeting of the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities, Council received a policy report from the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability (stemming from the Regulation Redesign
project). The policy report recommended various regulatory amendments and the
repeal of outdated or superseded policy and guideline documents. The regulatory
changes were sought to help to update regulations, to make the Zoning and
Development By-law more user-friendly, and to improve clarity for staff and
applicants;
16. On November 14, 2019, City Staff embarked on the Vancouver Plan planning
and engagement process and began asking the public questions to better
understand the challenges and priorities of residents. To date, the listening
process has heard the hopes, concerns, and aspirations of over 10,000
residents, employees, business owners, and visitors as part of the initial phase.
The thoughts that have been gathered are considered to be valuable and will
guide the next phase of the Vancouver Plan process and conversations on “The
Future We Want.”;
17. At the March 11, 2020, meeting of the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities, Council received a update on Phase 1 of the Vancouver Plan
process. Background and context information was included in the Staff
presentation and the following points were noted as to why there is a need for a
plan and why now:
• It’s a moment in time for Vancouver;
• High level of public anxiety about present and future;
• The power of a unifying vision and action strategy;
• Leveraging regional alignment and partnerships;
• Framework for better decision-making; and
• Reforming ongoing civic engagement and building trust;
18. The Vancouver Plan will ultimately set directions to guide the city’s future
priorities into 2050 and beyond, and the timeline to move from a plan to the
action phase is slated to take place between November 2021 and July 2022;
19. Due to the transitioning and subsuming of previous City planning processes into
the new Vancouver Plan process, the City’s existing Affordable Housing Choices
Interim Rezoning Policy (AHC IRP), which was established to encourage
innovation and enable real examples of ground-oriented and mid-rise affordable

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 16
housing types to be tested for potential wider application and provide ongoing
housing opportunities, has expired. New proposals for innovative housing are not
being accepted under the program at this time and opportunities are potentially
being missed as a result;
20. The ongoing need for innovation in the Vancouver housing market has never
been greater and has been a hallmark of Vancouver planning efforts going back
many decades. It has long been recognized that, if population growth and
demographic changes in the city are to be accommodated successfully,
developing various medium density forms that are economically viable and at the
same time can be successfully accommodated within, or adjacent to, single-
family neighbourhoods, is vitally important. Recognition of this fact is as evident
today as it was in decades past as can be seen in such City policies and plans as
CityPlan and the Neighbourhood Housing Demonstration Program from the
1990s; i https://council.vancouver.ca/previous_years/970225/a5.htm
21. The COVID-19 pandemic has revealed gaps in our housing framework and
presented opportunities to be bold in tackling much needed housing forms. The
Vancouver Plan has been refocused on recovery and short term recovery actions
are being pursued for 2020. These include a focus on complete neighbourhoods,
intergenerational living and affordable housing; and
22. Given the urgent need to shift toward the right supply of housing in the City that
can meet the needs of the people who live and work in Vancouver, and meeting
the right supply targets for that housing, it is imperative that the City continue to
identify opportunities to add innovative new housing choice across the City in our
lower-density neighbourhoods as a key building block of a future citywide plan.
Council’s ongoing aim should be to address the housing shortage identified as
the “missing middle”, as it relates to a middle income rental housing and
affordable home ownership, as an ongoing priority as we work toward a
comprehensive City-wide Vancouver Plan.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back in Q4 2020
with short term recovery actions to enable creative and experimental ground-oriented
housing types in RS and RT zones that:
• are suitable and affordable for a wider spectrum of Vancouver families;
• that can be easily replicated on a wider scale throughout the city, and
• which would inherently complement and/or dovetail with the core objectives of a
new City-wide Vancouver Plan;
so as not to lose out on innovative housing opportunities that could be lost due to the
lack of a working policy, while the City and staff work toward the realization of a
comprehensive Vancouver Plan;
FURTHER THAT any recommended short term recovery actions consider pilots on city
owned and private land, consider rental and freehold tenure, incentives, and relaxations
in height, density and parking for creative infill and ground oriented proposals that
significantly widen the spectrum of housing affordability in these areas by increasing the
intensity of land use whilst preserving good design and livability characteristic of
Vancouver neighbourhoods;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 17
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back Q2 2021 on options for a
revised policy framework that would enable additional density for housing options along
arterials and transit hubs and would serve the needs of moderate income households,
delivering more units than the current Moderate Income Rental Housing Pilot Program
(MIRHPP).
amended
___________________________
i. On June 6, 1995, Council adopted CITYPLAN: DIRECTIONS FOR VANCOUVER. One of the
directions of CityPlan is to increase housing variety in the city. As a next step to increasing
housing variety, CityPlan recommended that: “Vancouver should build demonstration projects
for new types of housing that offer the features of single-family housing at higher densities.” As
CityPlan noted, only 3% of the city’s stock in the 1990s was in the form of row or townhouses
while postulating that ground-oriented, medium density housing such as row and townhouses
would be in the great demand over the next decades in the city and the region.
On September 29, 2020, at 4:46 pm, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council recess until 5:45 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On September 29, 2020, Council recessed at 4:47 pm, and reconvened at 5:48 pm.
* * * * *
On September 29, 2020, at 5:50 pm, Councillor Kirby-Yung rose on a Point of Order under
section 8.2 questioning if the motion was in order due to the public being privy to a potential
forthcoming amendment prior to being presented to Council. Following a consultation with Legal
Services, the Chair ruled against the Point of Order, stating the member’s motion can proceed.
On September 29, 2020, Council heard from one speaker in support and three speakers in
opposition to the motion.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT in the first clause Council strike the words “Q4 2020” and replace with “Q2 2021”;
FURTHER THAT the word “COVID-19” be added after the words “short term” in both the
first and second clauses;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 18
AND FURTHER THAT in the second clause the word “unique character” be added after
the words “preserving good design”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06380)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT the following be added prior to the final “AND FURTHER THAT”
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to develop and report back with a stand-
alone, rapid-start, pilot project to promote the construction of affordable homes
for working and middle-income households in currently unaffordable RS and RT
residential zones which:
i. Allows up to four market strata units on a single property, provided up to
two additional below-market strata units are also included that are
permanently affordable for the City’s middle-income households.
ii. Includes incentives to encourage deeper affordability by relaxing parking
requirements, design, floor space ratio, and other city regulations;
iii. Explores the feasibility of including market and below-market rental
options;
iv. Restricts new builds to approximately the same height as a residential
home and includes provisions for the retention and/or renewal of trees on
private property, and excludes properties for which development would
result in the loss of current rental units or homes with heritage
designation;
v. Allows up to 100 individual projects to encourage innovation in housing
form and ownership models, spread across all RS and RT
neighbourhoods;
vi. Has proposed pilot project guidelines developed by staff for Council’s
consideration by Q2 2021, with a goal of launching the pilot project intake
by Q3 2021.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT in i. the phrase “the City’s middle-income households” be struck and replaced with
“households earning $50K or less per year”.
LOST (Vote No. 06381)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillors Fry and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT in i. the words “market strata” and “strata” be deleted.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 19
FURTHER THAT the following phrase be added to the end of i. “and report back
outlining how any potential land lift would be redirected towards achieving the maximum
level of permanent affordability in the middle-income units.”
FURTHER THAT in iv. the phrase “Restricts new builds to approximately the same
height as a residential home and” be struck
FURTHER THAT sub-clauses v.; vi.; be struck and replaced with the following, along
with the addition of sub-clauses vii.; viii.; and ix. as follows:
v. Considers increasing height allowance to allow for fully accessible ground
floor units, and to reduce the embodied emissions and costs of digging
deep basements.
vi. Aims for simplicity in regulations, with a goal that families or groups of
friends could make use of the pilot project, not just developers.
vii. Consults with the Community Housing Sector to explore what role they
could play in managing the affordable units, so that the public trusts that
these units will be affordable in perpetuity, and that the process for
choosing residents who get to live in these affordable units is fair and
transparent.
viii. Allows up to 100 individual projects to encourage innovation in housing
form and ownership models, spread equitably across all RS and RT
neighbourhoods;
ix. Has proposed pilot project guidelines developed by staff for Council’s
consideration by Q2 2021, with a goal of launching the pilot project intake
by Q3 2021.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06382)
(Councillors Bligh, Hardwick, and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT in i. the work “Allows” be replaced with “Conditionally allows”;
FURTHER THAT in iv. the words “or character home” be added after the word
“heritage”;
AND FURTHER THAT in v. the words “up to 100” be struck and replaced with “limited
number of”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06383)
(Councillors Boyle and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 20
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT in the second “FURTHER THAT” the words “develop and report back with” be
struck and replaced with “report back on the feasibility of”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06384)
(Councillors Boyle, Swanson and Mayor Stewart opposed)
Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote.
On September 29, 2020, at 7:59 pm, Mayor Stewart rose on a Point of Order under section 9.2.
The Chair ruled in favour of Mayor Stewart’s Point of Order and reminded Council to be careful
to not impugn other Council member’s motives.
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added to the end:
Applies only to owner occupied housing so that no existing rentals are
demolished.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 63885)
(Councillors Dominato and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
The amendments to the amendment having carried or lost, the amendment as amended was
put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06386) with Councillors Hardwick and Swanson
abstaining from the vote.
On September 29, 2020, at 8:23 pm, Councillor Kirby-Yung rose on a Point of Order under
section 9.3, as they felt their motives were being impugned. Councillor De Genova reminded
Council be careful with word choice.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council refers the amended motion entitled “Enabling Creative and Easily
Replicated “Missing Middle” Housing Pilots” to staff to review and include the concepts in
the “Complete Neighbourhoods” community dialogues and public consultation scheduled
this fall as part of the Vancouver Plan;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back in Q2 2021 on public feedback
related to these concepts, including any recommendations to enable and expedite more
diverse, affordable, ground-oriented housing choices.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the word “proposed” be added before the words “amended motion”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06387)
(Councillors Boyle, Swanson and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 21
The amendment to the referral having carried, the referral motion as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 06388) with Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart opposed and Councillors
De Genova and Swanson abstaining from the vote.
4. Open Option Parking Policy
At the Council meeting on September 15, 2020, Council referred the above-noted motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 16, 2020, in order to
hear from speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, Council referred the motion to the
reconvening Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 29,
2020 for debate and decision and to hear from speakers.
Council heard from two speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver regulates off-street parking to balance the needs of
residents, commuters, and visitors. Parking By-law No. 6059 stipulates required
parking minimums that apply to vehicle parking spaces, loading spaces, bicycle
spaces, and passenger spaces;
2. On July 25, 2018, amendments to the Parking By-law were approved by Council
and came into effect January 1, 2019. These amendments included up to
30 percent parking reductions available to developers with submission of a
satisfactory Transportation Demand Management (TDM) plan in accordance with
the City’s TDM Administrative Bulletin, (comprising of up to 10 percent reduction
for proximity to transit, and up to 20 percent reduction for TDM measures).
Additional reductions were also enabled for rental residential developments of up
to 60 percent;
3. Vancouver’s Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Policy provides
measures to prioritize more sustainable travel as part of rezoning and/or
development permit applications;
4. The City’s Climate Emergency Response aims to have two thirds of trips in
Vancouver made by active transportation and transit by 2030 – an update from
the City’s previous Transportation 2040 goal of achieving this by 2040;
5. The City’s Climate Emergency Response six big moves aim to reduce embodied
emissions from new buildings and construction projects by 40% by 2030
(compared to a 2018 baseline);
6. Construction of underground parking is a significant source of embodied carbon
emissions. Further, the costs of excavation and concrete construction ultimately
add to the cost of housing;
7. Recently, many North American cities that have experienced growth have started
to reassess their transportation, housing, and environmental priorities. Seattle is

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 22
one such city, where changes to parking minimums were made in 2012 and
again in 2018. On-site parking minimums are now seen as a barrier to achieving
the walkable, compact, urban environments many cities aspire toward in the
21st Century and beyond;
8. Most recently the City of Edmonton – where on-site parking minimum policies
have led to a 50 percent oversupply of on-site parking – opted to completely
eliminate parking minimums under an Open Option Parking approach, whereby
the amount of on-site parking to be supplied for new developments will be
determined by the property owner or business based on their needs and
requirements;
9. Open Option Parking does not mean that zero or no on-site parking will be built
as part of any given development (although it is possible in some cases with the
exception of requirements for accessible parking and loading). An Open Option
Parking policy merely allows greater choice and flexibility for property owners,
developers and businesses to respond to market demand and to better
accommodate market changes while retaining adequate space for loading and
deliveries, visitors, service providers, and accessible parking needs;i
10. Adoption of an Open Option Parking policy in the City of Vancouver would
require that a number of related issues be addressed in a coordinated manner in
order to mitigate potential adverse impacts. For example, implementing
measures to better regulate curbside parking spaces and laneways in areas with
open option requirements to prevent parking spillover (i.e. to keep future
residents from simply parking on the street), while also strengthening
Transportation Demand Management requirements to reduce demand for private
motor vehicle parking and encourage sustainable transportation choices;
11. Ideally, an Open Option Parking Policy should include measures to monitor how
community needs shift and change over time to ensure that there are no barriers
to access for residents or patrons, as well as consider implementing maximum
parking allowances to align with the City’s Climate Emergency goals and ensure
that developers don’t create an oversupply of parking; and
12. If successfully adopted and implemented in the City of Vancouver, with flexibility
to meet the changing needs of residents and patrons over the long-term (e.g.
mobility vehicles, etc.), an Open Option Parking policy could lead to improved
development processes by ensuring parking supply and demand are aligned. An
Open Option Parking policy would also increase the efficiency with which
rezoning applications and development permit applications can be reviewed and
approved.
___________________________
i Ensuring access for people with accessibility needs, loading and deliveries, service providers,
and visitors, is a vitally important consideration for an Open Option Parking policy. Visitor and
service provider parking has frequently been raised as a significant issue for persons with
disabilities during prior consultations.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 23
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to explore the elimination of On-Site Parking Minimums
in the City and the adoption of an Open Option Parking approach/policy to allow
greater choice and flexibility for property owners, businesses and developers to
better accommodate market changes, ensure parking supply and demand are
aligned, meet loading and accessibility requirements, and increase the efficiency
with which rezoning applications and development permit applications can be
reviewed and approved by the City.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back by the end of Q4 with recommendations
for consideration toward the implementation of an Open Option Parking Policy,
including identifying all requisite by-law amendments that would need to be
enacted, with the report to include specific information as to how an Open Option
Parking Policy (including consideration of parking maximums) might support
greater housing affordability and the City’s Climate Emergency bold moves.
C. THAT staff be directed to consult with relevant stakeholders in the development
of an Open Option Parking Policy, including consultation with (but not limited to)
the City’s Accessibility Task Force, Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee
and Seniors Advisory Committee, including investigating questions such as
monitoring how community needs shift and change over time – to ensure that
there are no barriers to access for residents or business patrons that might arise
– and measures to manage curbside parking in order to control potential parking
overflow on to city streets.
amended
On September 29, 2020, at 9:51 pm, it was
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council complete Item 4 and refer remaining items to the reconvening meeting on
September 30, 2020.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added to the end:
THAT staff be directed to look at how savings from ending parking minimums
could be used to increase housing affordability.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06389)
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06390) with Councillor Hardwick abstaining from the vote and
Councillors Bligh and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 24
* * * * *
On September 29, 2020, the Committee recessed at 9:59 pm and
reconvened on September 30, 2020, at 1:08 pm.
* * * * *
6. Mental Health and Addiction Reform: An Expert-Led Cross Jurisdictional Task
Force
At the Council meeting on September 15, 2020, Council referred the above-noted motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 16, 2020 in order to
hear from speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, Council referred the motion to the
reconvening Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 29,
2020 for debate and decision and to hear from speakers.
On September 30, 2020, Council heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Amid the ongoing COVID-19 global pandemic, Canada and the world are in the
grips of an ongoing mental health and addiction crisis – one that ruins health,
threatens lives, and hurts economies. The magnitude of this mental health and
addiction crisis, on a societal and on a personal level, is profoundly
overwhelming and continues to frustrate and defy most efforts to arrive at
effective solutions and achieve more successful outcomes;
2. Mental illness and addiction affect people of all ages and backgrounds. The
Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) – Canada's largest mental health
teaching hospital and one of the world's leading research centres in its field –
cites statistics that show mental illness will affect approximately 1 in 5 Canadians
in any given year, and that, by the time Canadians reach 40 years of age, 1 in 2
have – or have had – a mental illness. Approximately 4,000 Canadians per year
die by suicide – an average of nearly 11 suicides a day;
3. The City of Vancouver is home to residents who continue to struggle with mental
illness and/or addiction. Many lack the necessary supports within our housing
and social services systems to thrive, especially amid the societal disruption
resulting from COVID-19;
4. The City of Vancouver has taken various steps to reduce the harm caused by
alcohol and drug use – and ensure that people get treatment – without sacrificing
personal security. Council is working to:
• promote healthy families and communities and protect child development;
• make sure individuals have access to services that help them lead
healthier lives

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 25
• reduce the spread of deadly communicable diseases, and prevent drug
overdose deaths;
• recognize the need for peace and quiet, public order, and safety;
5. Much has been written, discussed, studied, announced, debated, attempted,
actioned and/or implemented over the course of several decades to address the
challenge of our city’s – and our country’s – persistent and increasingly complex
struggle with mental health and addiction issues, including the related struggle to
provide affordable, safe housing across the housing spectrum in our city.
Numerous examples of these actions, measures, plans, and strategies exist, and
many people have noted and questioned the apparent lack of effectiveness
and/or significant results flowing from past solutions and actions. Many see the
approach as fragmentary and incomplete and are calling for significant change,
particularly the need for governments at all levels to radically rethink how we
deliver social services across the spectrum;
6. A representative (though not exhaustive) list of examples of the measures and
actions taken and/or considered/recommended over the course of several
decades in response to our city’s longstanding and increasingly desperate
mental health and addiction issues ranges from the Four Pillars Drug Strategy in
the 1990s to the creation of the provincial government’s Ministry of Mental Health
and Addictions in 2017 to the more recent emergency measures surrounding the
unsafe and deadly supply of street drugs and the resulting need for greater
access to a safer supply of opioids for those suffering chronic addiction (NOTE:
an expanded list of illustrative examples is included below in the endnotes); i
7. Despite the many response efforts to-date, we continue to have people living on
the margins of life and death in our city who are in desperate need of better
supports – those who are homeless or precariously housed, some struggling with
personal trauma, untreated mental illness, addiction, and chronic health issues –
while others in our city are increasingly feeling unsafe in their neighbourhoods,
grappling with increased crime, threats and needles in parks and streets. Health
experts and police alike continue to advocate that we have a public health crisis
on our hands and as Chief Palmer recently noted, “Addiction issues should best
be handled through a health-care system, not a criminal justice system,”;
8. Members of the public, frontline service providers, advocates, police, health, and
housing leaders are increasingly and consistently calling for mental health and
addiction treatment reforms that will address the urgent public health crisis, along
with the increasing public safety concerns, including:
• System navigation to connect vulnerable residents to appropriate
services;
• Integration of wraparound supports and services as part of our
housing framework;
• More treatment beds and a system for bridging the transition gap from
detox to treatment, where long waitlists are reported;
• Increased treatment and recovery pathways;
• A centralized registry to enhance information sharing between
agencies serving individuals who are homeless, accessing detox,
seeking treatment etc.;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 26
• A full spectrum of safer supply that is accessible to all;
• Decriminalization of drugs as a public-health response;
9. On July 31, 2020, Councillor Dominato wrote to the Honourable John Horgan,
Premier of British Columbia, expressing deep concern over “The growing
challenge of homelessness, mental health, and addiction related issues in
Vancouver” and the “emerging tensions” playing out in a number of downtown
area Vancouver neighbourhoods. Her letter noted the ongoing struggle to find
effective solutions which “obliges governments at all levels to radically rethink
how we deliver social services across the spectrum.” In the letter, she made two
urgent requests of the Premier and Provincial Cabinet to consider:
• to expedite recently announced navigation centres to provide
emergency shelter and wrap around services to people who are
currently in need, and increase the proposed capacity of the centre
from 60 spaces to 200 spaces;
___________________________
i The following examples are representative and illustrative (although not exhaustive) of
measures and actions taken and/or considered/recommended over the course of many decades
in response to mental health and addiction issues and the challenges that frustratingly persist:
• Under former Vancouver Mayor Philip Owen, the Four Pillars Drug Strategy was
adopted by the City in the 1990s.
• Flowing from the Four Pillars Drug Strategy, Council unanimously endorsed a drug
policy prevention plan in November 2005: Preventing Harm from Psychoactive
Substance Use. The plan was the result of extensive research and diverse community
consultations and the first of its kind at the municipal level in Canada.
• In September 2013, the City of Vancouver, the Chief Constable of the Vancouver Police
Department (VPD), and the Chair of the Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) Board
presented four urgent recommendations to the Premier and the Ministry of Health. This
was to respond to a surge in people with severe, untreated mental illness and addictions
at St. Paul’s Hospital, a dramatic increase in people taken into police custody under the
Mental Health Act, and several violent episodes that indicated a major crisis in the health
care system.
• to support the establishment of a municipal-provincial-federal task
force on mental health and addiction, with a mandate to review the
current service delivery and outreach framework, including the
interdependencies and coordination between different levels of
government;
10. In recent months, in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic, we have seen
the positive impact that all levels of government can have when they work
together with urgency, intention, and coordination. Our province has emerged as
a leader in the race against time, successfully implementing measures to flatten
our province’s COVID-19 curve. Many observers have suggested a similar
intentional and coordinated approach to mental health and addictions could be a

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 27
game changer that would save lives and create pathways to greater health and
resilience. Given the persistence and the crisis level of mental health and
addiction issues in our city, our province, and our country, it is incumbent upon
governments at all levels – now more than ever – to radically rethink how we
deliver social services across the spectrum.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Mayor and Council publicly call for, and endorse
in principle, the establishment of an expert-led cross-jurisdictional (provincial-federal-
municipal) emergency task force on mental health and addiction, the mandate of which
will be to respond to the urgent public health and emerging public safety concerns
manifesting in our communities and bring forward expert-informed (including lived
experience), evidence-based, non-partisan recommendations and solutions;
FURTHER THAT the task force mandate shall specifically include an examination and
review of the current service delivery and outreach frameworks, including harm
reduction, treatment, and recovery services, as well as the intersectionality of these
issues with housing, and shall include an examination and review of the coordination
between the various jurisdictions that proactively and reactively deliver these services;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct the Mayor, on behalf of Council, to write to Premier
Horgan and Prime Minister Trudeau to seek their leadership in establishing a cross-
jurisdictional task force as outlined above.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added to the end:
AND FURTHER THAT the Task Force will consider housing, adequate income,
and safe supply as important services, and that the goal will be to provide people
with choices for their own lives.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the phrase “that the goal will be to provide” be struck and replaced with
“providing”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06396)
(Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06398) with Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart absent
for the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT in the “THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED” the word “indigenous-” be added before
the words “provincial-federal-municipal”;

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 28
FURTHER THAT in the second “FURTHER THAT” the phrase “write to Premier Horgan”
be struck and replaced with “write to the Premier-elect”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06399)
(Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.)
The amendments having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06400) with Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Mayor and Council publicly call for, and endorse
in principle, the establishment of an expert-led cross-jurisdictional (indigenous-provincial-
federal-municipal) emergency task force on mental health and addiction, the mandate of
which will be to respond to the urgent public health and emerging public safety concerns
manifesting in our communities and bring forward expert-informed (including lived
experience), evidence-based, non-partisan recommendations and solutions;
FURTHER THAT the task force mandate shall specifically include an examination and
review of the current service delivery and outreach frameworks, including harm
reduction, treatment, and recovery services, as well as the intersectionality of these
issues with housing, and shall include an examination and review of the coordination
between the various jurisdictions that proactively and reactively deliver these services;
FURTHER THAT Council direct the Mayor, on behalf of Council, to write to the
Premier-elect and Prime Minister Trudeau to seek their leadership in establishing a
cross-jurisdictional task force as outlined above;
AND FURTHER THAT the Task Force will consider housing, adequate income, and safe
supply as important services, and providing people with choices for their own lives.
7. Short Term Actions to Preserve and Expand Access to Mental Health Resources
and Housing in Grandview-Woodlands
At the Council meeting on September 15, 2020, Council referred the above-noted motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 16, 2020 in order to
hear from speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, Council referred the motion to the
reconvening Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on September 29,
2020 for debate and decision and to hear from speakers.
On September 30, 2020, Council heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Kettle Friendship Societyi, is a non-profit organization, established
approximately 40 years ago. The organization provides many resources and
services, including a drop-in centre and supportive housing to individuals who

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 29
experience mental health challenges and addiction. Indigenous people, seniors
and homeless individuals are among the vulnerable and marginalized people
served by this organization;
2. The Kettle Friendship Society has been operating at capacity for over a decade.
The society partnered with Boffo Properties; a family-owned property
development company long established in Grandview-Woodlands. With BC
Housing included as a partner, the most recent proposal for the project was able
to secure funding to provide fifty (50) non-market and affordable housing units,
owned by The Kettle Society, a funding commitment rarely made by BC Housing
at such an early stage of a project. The proposed 15-storey development also
enabled an expanded drop-in centre for the Kettle Society;
3. Public consultation for the “Boffo Kettle Project” originally began in 2012. The
Grandview Woodlands Citizens’ Assembly formally supported this project in their
Final Report;
4. Vancouver City Council adopted The Grandview Woodlands Plan, on
July 28, 2016. The development proposed by The Kettle Boffo Plan is referenced
numerous times, including:
Subsection “Places: Commercial Drive”:
“Kettle Friendship Centre Society is a key community asset that has offered
accessible social services, including key mental health supports, to residents
living with mental illness for over 35 years. Given increasing demands for
services, Kettle’s future plan is to redevelop their existing site, perhaps together
with adjacent privately- and City-owned sites towards a larger facility to better
meet the community needs. Where possible, the City aims to support this plan to
increase access to low-barrier services.
For the purposes of this plan, this special site is defined as the area bounded by
Venables Street, the Commercial Diversion, and Commercial Drive. This
represents an overall area of about 0.3 hectares (0.75 acres). It is recognized
that future redevelopment of this overall site could occur in a consolidated
manner that incorporates several properties (and could possibly include the City-
owned land) or it could occur through a number of independent developments.
The intent reflected in the plan policies is to ensure that this special site delivers -
- as a minimum -- space for the expanded services of the Kettle Friendship
Society, as well as 30 units of non-market, supportive housing” ii
Section 7.1.2 of the plan titled “Housing” also states in the “Policies” subsection,
a further subsection “Support efforts to eliminate homelessness”, including:
“Enable the development of additional supportive housing in Grandview
Woodland. Ensure financial viability through senior government funding and/ or
provision of additional density subject to fit with neighbourhood context (e.g.
proposed redevelopment of the Kettle Friendship Society Centre at 1725
Venables Street); iii
5. June 2018, the applicant withdrew the project that was in the Rezoning
Pre-Application stage. In a letter from The Kettle Society to Mayor and Council,

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 30
Executive Director Nancy Keough stated, “we were unable to reach an
agreement with the City on a path forward in terms of the City’s financial
requirements;” iv
6. July 25, 2018, Council unanimously passed the motion titled “Support for the
Kettle Society and the City of Vancouver’s commitment to Resources for Mental
Health, Ending Homelessness and Supportive Housing” v, with direction to staff
as follows:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirm support for The Kettle Society as a non-profit
organization that serves thousands of people annually and
provides resources to individuals and families facing mental health
issues and homelessness in the City of Vancouver.
B. THAT Council direct staff to work with The Kettle Society to
consider potential opportunities for The Kettle Society to move
forward with their longstanding plans to develop an expanded
drop-in centre and at least 30 units of community integrated
supportive housing for individuals struggling with mental health
issues and homelessness in Vancouver;
7. Vancouver faces a homelessness and housing crisis and is in the midst of an
overdose crisis. On the frontlines for both, The Kettle Friendship Society provides
critical resources to some of the most vulnerable and marginalized people in the
City;
___________________________
i The Kettle Society, Who We Are/ History. www.thekettle.ca/who-we-are/history/
ii City of Vancouver. July 2016. Grandview Woodland Community Plan. page 50.
www.vancouver.ca/files/cov/grandview-woodland-community-plan.pdf
iii City of Vancouver. July 2016. Grandview Woodland Community Plan. page 130.
www.vancouver.ca/files/cov/grandview-woodland-community-plan.pdf
iv Keough, Nancy. 2018. Letter to Vancouver City Council. The Kettle Society and Kettle Boffo.
www.kettleboffo.com/letter-to-council/
v De Genova, M. 2018. Support for the Kettle Society and the City of Vancouver’s Commitment
to Resources for Mental Health, Ending Homelessness and Supportive Housing. Motion
referred to Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities Meeting Date July 25, 2018.
www.council.vancouver.ca/20180725/documents/pspc16.pdf
vi City of Vancouver. June 5, 2020. “Community Housing Program Incentive Grants” Report and
Recommendations to Council. www.council.vancouver.ca/20200707/documents/r8.pdf
8. Vancouver City Council received a letter from The Kettle Society on July 6, 2020,
with an updated request. The letter also states, “The Kettle is a trusted partner of
B.C. Housing and because of that can bring 50 new, core income homes to the
City of Vancouver.” (Attached as Appendix A); and

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 31
9. Vancouver City Council unanimously supported recommendations by staff, in a
report vi, dated June 5, 2020, to award Community Housing Incentive Program
(CHIP) Grants for the year 2020, organizations and amounts listed below:
- Finnish Canadian Rest Home Association “Finnish Care Home” - $890,000;
- Lee’s Benevolent Association of Canada “Lee’s Seniors’ Housing” $655,000;
-The Governing Council of the Salvation Army in Canada “Salvation Army”
$910,000;
- Aboriginal Land Trust Society “ALT” “Lu’ma Aboriginal Housing Society”
$6,255,000.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to approach, prioritize and work with The Kettle Society,
and their partners, to revisit their most recent and desired proposal, planned for
development at Venables Street and Commercial Drive, including an expanded
drop-in mental health centre and 50 units of non-market housing to be owned by
The Kettle Friendship Society, with funding from BC Housing, in the interest of
moving forward.
B. THAT Council direct staff to identify and allocate CHIP grants and/or any other
option available, to meet the financial needs of the project and satisfy any
financial contributions, the City of Vancouver requires for this project to proceed.
C. THAT Council direct staff to provide monthly updates to Council on progress staff
have made with The Kettle Friendship Society in the interest of moving forward
on an application led by this non-profit organizations and their funding and
development partners.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT in B, the phrase “and allocate CHIP grants and/or any other option available” be
struck and replaced with “funding available through the City of Vancouver, including
CHIP grants”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06402)
(Councillor Carr abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
On September 30, 2020, at 2:33 pm, it was,
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer debate and decision on the amended item “Short Term Actions to
Preserve and Expand Access to Mental Health Resources and Housing in Grandview-
Woodlands” as Unfinished Business to the Council meeting on October 6, 2020.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06403)
(Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, September 16, 29, and 30, 2020 32
On September 30, 2020, the Committee adjourned at 2:36 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
SEPTEMBER 16, AND 30, 2020
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, September 16,
2020, at 9:54 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and
actions of the Committee. Subsequently, the meeting reconvened on Wednesday,
September 30, 2020, at 2:36 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart (September 30, 2020 – Civic Business
from 1-3pm)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle (September 30, 2020 – Civic
Business from 1-3pm)
Councillor Adriane Carr, Deputy Mayor
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson* (September 16, 2020 - Medical
Leave from 8:39 pm onwards on September 16, 2020)
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk – September 16, 2020
Tina Penney, Director, Legislative Operations – September 30,
2020
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator – September 16, 2020
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator – September 30, 2020
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, September 16, 2020
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 16, 2020 2
1. 2019 – 2022 Capital Plan Recalibration
5. Extending Pop-Up Patios This Fall and Winter and Making Pop-Up Patios a Part of
Every Summer in Vancouver
Items 1 and 5
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of September 16, 2020, as contained in items 1 and
5, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On September 16, 2020, Council recessed at 9:56 pm and
reconvened on September 30, 2020, at 2:34 pm.
* * * * *
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Tuesday, September 29, 2020 and Wednesday, September 30, 2020
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
2. Granville Bridge Connector and Drake Street Improvements
3. Enabling Creative and Easily Replicated “Missing Middle” Housing Pilots
4. Open Option Parking Policy
6. Mental Health and Addiction Reform: An Expert-Led Cross Jurisdictional Task Force
7. Short Term Actions to Preserve and Expand Access to Mental Health Resources and
Housing in Grandview-Woodlands
Items 2 through 4, and items 6 and 7.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of September 29, 2020, and September 30, 2020,
as contained in items 2 through 4, and items 6 and 7, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, September 16, 2020 3
URGENT BUSINESS
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council approve Leaves of Absence as follows:
• Mayor Stewart for Civic Business on September 30, 2020, from 1-3 pm;
and
• Councillor Boyle for Civic Business on September 30, 2020, from 1-3 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be recessed.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
On September 30, 2020, Council adjourned at 2:38 pm.
* * * * *