PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 28 AND 29, 2020
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 28, 2020, at 6:03 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by electronic
means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of
the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order No. M192.
Subsequently the Public Hearing reconvened on Wednesday, July 29, 2020, at 6:23 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. CD-1 Text Amendment: 475 Alexander Street (Japanese Hall)
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (337) (Comprehensive Development) District for the
Japanese Hall at 475 Alexander Street to increase the permitted floor space
ratio (FSR) from 2.17 to 2.21 to allow for a mezzanine for programming and
storage space.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 2
Summary of Correspondence
One piece of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application was received
since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public
comments:
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability reviewed the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Darius Maze, Executive Director, Japanese Language School and Japanese Hall, and Laura
Saimoto, Interpretive Centre Renovation Project Chair, Board Director, Vancouver Japanese
Language School and Japanese Hall, provided a review of the application and responded to
questions.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:36 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
Laura Saimoto, Interpretive Centre Renovation Project Chair, Board Director, Vancouver
Japanese Language School and Japanese Hall, provided closing comments.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
A. THAT the application to amend the text of CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District (337) By-law No. 7434 for the Japanese Hall at 475 Alexander Street
[PID 018-834-477, Lot B Block 38 District Lot 196 Plan LMP17696] to increase
the maximum floor space ratio from 2.17 to 2.21 to allow for a mezzanine to be
added to one of the existing buildings for programming and storage space,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report dated June 9, 2020,
entitled “CD-1 Text Amendment: 475 Alexander Street (Japanese Hall)”, be
approved.
B. THAT A above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolution creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 3
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06269)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
2. CD-1 REZONING: 6031 Dunbar Street
An application by Diamond Group Architecture Inc. was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 6031 Dunbar Street from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling) District to
CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit the development of
two residential buildings at 2½ and 3 storeys, comprising nine secured market
rental units. A maximum height of 11.5 metres (37.4 feet) and a floor space
ratio (FSR) of 1.1 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated July 28, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
6031 Dunbar Street – replacement of Engineering Conditions”, from the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which informed Council of incomplete Engineering
conditions contained in Part 1 and 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated June 9, 2020,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6031 Dunbar Street”. The changes do not create any material
difference to the conditions and adds a few omitted details which are routine Engineering
requirements. The updated Engineering conditions are as follows:
FURTHER THAT Engineering conditions 11 to 14 in Part 1 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report, be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
11. Parking, loading, bicycle, and passenger loading spaces must be provided and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Vancouver Parking
By-Law.
12. Water Sustainability Act: Construction dewatering is a Water Use Purpose under
the Water Sustainability Act requiring a provincial Approval or License.
Applications for provincial Approvals or Licenses can be completed online. The
application will be received and accepted into the province’s online system, and
the provincial authorizations team strives for 140 days to get the approval to the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 4
applicant. The approval holder must be able to produce their approval on site so
that it may be shown to a government official upon request. Dewatering before
this approval is granted is not in compliance with the provincial Water
Sustainability Act. Provide a letter confirming acknowledgement of the condition.
For more information: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/environment/air-land-
water/water/water-licensing-rights/water-licences-approvals
13. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any portion
of the service connection above grade within the road right of way.
14. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal design
standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual section 02596 and
Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site. Current construction practices regarding shotcrete
shoring removals have put City utilities at risk during removal of encroaching
portions of the shoring systems. Detailed confirmations of these commitments
will be sought at the building permit stage with final design achievements certified
and confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and protection
of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written
acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact Engineering
Services for details.
14A. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire the
project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize street use
during excavation & construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or
sourcing adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab pour
that requires additional street use beyond the already identified project street use
permissions.
14B. Show City of Vancouver supplied building grades on Architectural and
Landscape plans.
14C. Provision of a finalized Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services. Provide TDM Plan
as a separate package with complete information on TDM measures proposed
including the following clarifications:
• ACT-02 – Improved Access to Class A bicycle Parking
Provision of concept design for excellent design of lighting, finishes,
o
grades, convenience;
Provision of operational and design specifications for automated bicycle
o
parking (if applicable);
Identify the number and location of the Class A bicycle parking provided
o
above grade on plans, as well as note the access route to reach the
Class A bicycle parking from the outside;
Note to applicant: A total of 2 points appear achievable for excellent design and
finishing given provision of the requested information.
• SUP-03 – Multimodal Wayfinding Signage

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 5
Note to applicant: The proposed measure is not acceptable as a TDM measure.
Proposed wayfinding signage would direct individuals to the nearby Musqueam
Park only. It does not meet the intent for locating signage at key destinations for
directing individuals to transportation services and infrastructure, including
transit, bicycle share, car share parking, bicycle parking and amenities.
Note to applicant: A TDM Plan with minimum 9 points is required to achieve the
proposed vehicle parking reduction (4 spaces). Refer to Schedule B of the TDM
policy for detailed requirements for each measure. Provide TDM Plan as a
separate package.
14D. Subject to the acceptance of an approved TDM Plan, entry into a TDM
agreement, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services
and the Director of Legal Services, which:
• Secures provision of funding towards long-term TDM monitoring fund in the
amount of $280 per parking space waived;
• Secures the provision of TDM measures on the site;
• Permits the City to access and undertake post occupancy monitoring of
the Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures proposed;
• Agrees to make reasonable adjustments to the TDM measures as requested
by the City, based on the TDM monitoring results.
14E. Design development to improve access and design of bicycle parking and
comply with the Bicycle Parking Design Supplement.
• Provision of automatic door openers for all doors providing access to Class A
bicycle storage;
• Provision of minimum 5% of Class A bicycle lockers to be provided as
oversized spaces with a 1.5m (5’) aisle width;
• Provision of maximum 30% of Class A bicycle spaces to be provided as
vertical spaces;
• Provision of minimum 10% of Class A bicycle spaces to be provided as
bicycle lockers.
14F. Design development to improve the parkade layout and access design and
comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services, including the following:
• Provision of a maximum 6” encroachment into minimum vehicle parking
widths adjacent one wall.
Note to applicant: Consider increasing garage door widths to achieve this.
Note to applicant: 2.3m (7’ 6 ½”) of vertical clearance is required for access and
maneuvering to all disability spaces.
14G. The following information is required for drawing submission at the development
permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation review:
• All types of parking and loading spaces individually numbered, dimensioned
and labelled on the drawings;
• Dimensions for typical parking spaces;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 6
• Section drawings showing minimum vertical clearances for parking garages
to the underside of raised security gates;
• Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A bicycle spaces to reach
the outside. Stair ramps are not generally acceptable.
14H. The following statement is to be placed on the landscape plan; This plan is “NOT
FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to Engineering
Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any construction proposed for
public property. No work on public property may begin until such plans receive
“For Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please contact
Engineering, Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site
Inspector for details.”
14I. Provision of a draft final Rainwater Management Plan (RWMP) prior to DP
issuance. As it is acknowledged that not all design components are advanced
fully at this stage, placeholders will be accepted in this resubmission with the
expectation the final report will include all relevant details.
Note to applicant: The resubmission at DP must include the following
amendments;
• Amend the design of the proposed raingarden to include a closed bottom as
current building by-laws prohibit designed infiltration systems within 5.0 m of
building foundations. Consider a closed-bottom b’s io-retention system to
capture, treat and then convey rainwater from the site;
• A grading plan to support the proposal of grading hardscapes into adjacent
landscaping, Coordination with the landscape architect will be required to
support this proposal;
• Provide an updated site map detailing how rainwater will be directed or
retained in each area. Include the following:
All routing of rainwater throughout the site;
o
Confirm area and depth of landscaping to support the claim of absorbent
o
landscaping as a rainwater capture method.
14J. Provision of a FINAL RWMP prior to the issuance of any building permit for the
construction of any building, submitted to the satisfaction of the Director of
Planning and City Engineer.
14K. A Section 219 Rainwater Management Agreement Covenant will be required
once the Final RWMP is accepted by the City.”;
AND FURTHER THAT Engineering condition 1 in Part 2 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
1. A Services Agreement is required to detail the on and off-site works and services
necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site (collectively called “the
services”) such that they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost to the
City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services are
provided. No development permit for the site will be issued until the security for
the services are provided. The Service Agreement shall include, but is not limited
to, the following:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 7
(a) Based on the confirmed Fire Underwriter’s Survey Required Fire Flows
and domestic flows submitted by Cardinal Engineering LTD. dated
April 5th, 2020, no water main upgrades are required to service the
development;
(b) A fire hydrant fronting the development needs to be installed.
Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services will be required to secure
payment for the new hydrant installation. The developer is responsible for
100% of the cost;
(c) The main servicing the proposed development is 300 mm along Dunbar
Street. Note: Should the development’s Fire Underwriter’s Survey
Required Fire Flow calculation change as the building design progresses,
a resubmission to the City of Vancouver Waterworks Engineer is required
for re-evaluation of the Water System;
(d) Provision of street improvements along Dunbar Street adjacent to the site
and appropriate transitions including the following:
• Minimum 2.14m (7’) wide broom finish saw-cut concrete sidewalk;
• Upgraded street lighting (roadway and sidewalk) adjacent to the site
to current COV standards and IESNA recommendations;
• Adjustment to all existing infrastructure to accommodate the proposed
street improvements.
(e) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the development
site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are to consist of
electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City needs in a
configuration acceptable by the General Manager of Engineering
Services and in conformance with applicable electrical codes and
regulations. A detailed design will be required prior to the start of any
associated street work;
Note to applicant: as-constructed documentation will be required that
includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed number of
conduits, their final locations and depths;
(f) All utility cuts on Dunbar Street are to be restored to City “Industrial,
Arterial and Bus Routes” specification and utility cuts on the lane to be
restored to the City’s “Higher Zoned Streets/Lanes” specification;
(g) Milling and regrading the lane adjacent to the development site to
accommodate City supplied building grades will be required;
(h) Provision of funding for the installation of parking regulatory signage on
streets adjacent to the site to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
(i) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service to meet the
demands of the project.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 8
The post-development 10-year flow rate discharged to the storm sewer
shall be no greater than the 10-year pre-development flow rate. The
pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF curves, whereas the
post-development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF curves to account
for climate change;
Note to applicant: Development to be serviced to the existing 1050 mm
STM and 450 mm SAN sewers in Dunbar Street;
Note to applicant: This property is under the Provincial Well-Drilling
Advisory Area, and subsurface flowing artesian conditions may exist;
(j) Engineering Services will require all utility services to be underground for
this development. All electrical services to the site must be primary with
all electrical plant, which include but not limited to System Vista, Vista
switchgear, pad mounted transformers and kiosks (including non-BC
Hydro kiosks) are to be located on private property with no reliance on
public property for placement of these features. The applicant plants are
provided for on-site;
(k) Submission of a Key Plan to the City for review and approval prior to
submission of any third party utility drawings may be required. The Key
Plan shall meet the specifications in the City of Vancouver Engineering
Design Manual Section 2.4.4 Key Plan;
(https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/2015-002-clearances-from-the-existing-bc-
hydro-high-voltage-overhead-conductors-and-transformers.pdf). All third
party service lines to the development shall be shown on the plan (e.g.,
BC Hydro, Telus, Shaw, etc. The review of third party utility service
drawings will not be initiated until the Key Plan is defined. For questions
on this requirement, please contact the Utilities Management Branch at
604-829-9447 or at umb@vancouver.ca.”
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 4 pieces of correspondence in support;
• 31 pieces of correspondence in opposition; and
• 1 piece of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability reviewed the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
David Garrioch, Diamond Architecture Group, responded to questions.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 9
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Larry Benge
• Alexander Wright
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
• Linda Lim
• Johnathan Aiken
• Tracey Pickett
• Ian Watson
• Brian McCormack
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 7:50 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
David Garrioch, Diamond Architecture Group, provided closing comments addressing parking
and starting rents.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and Engineering Services, responded to
additional questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT the application by Diamond Group Architecture Inc., on behalf of Pinghan
Holdings Ltd, the registered owners, to rezone 6031 Dunbar Street [PID 010-064-
141; Lot F Block 4 District Lot 320 Plan 6858]; from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor
space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 1.10 and the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 11.5 m
(37.4 ft.) to permit the development of two secured residential rental buildings
containing a total of nine rental housing units, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Referral Report dated June 9, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
6031 Dunbar Street”, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Diamond Group Architecture and received on
December 20, 2019, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development;
FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of Approval
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 10
FURTHER THAT Engineering conditions 11 to 14 in Part 1 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report, be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
11. Parking, loading, bicycle, and passenger loading spaces must be
provided and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the
Vancouver Parking By-Law.
12. Water Sustainability Act: Construction dewatering is a Water Use
Purpose under the Water Sustainability Act requiring a provincial
Approval or License. Applications for provincial Approvals or Licenses
can be completed online. The application will be received and accepted
into the province’s online system, and the provincial authorizations team
strives for 140 days to get the approval to the applicant. The approval
holder must be able to produce their approval on site so that it may be
shown to a government official upon request. Dewatering before this
approval is granted is not in compliance with the provincial Water
Sustainability Act. Provide a letter confirming acknowledgement of the
condition.
For more information:
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/environment/air-land-
water/water/water-licensing-rights/water-licences-approvals
13. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any
portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of way.
14. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual
section 02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access
around existing and future utilities adjacent your site. Current
construction practices regarding shotcrete shoring removals have put City
utilities at risk during removal of encroaching portions of the shoring
systems. Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be sought at
the building permit stage with final design achievements certified and
confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of removals and
protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of
written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please contact
Engineering Services for details.
14A. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire
the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize
street use during excavation & construction (i.e. consideration to the
building design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from)
and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection / removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
14B. Show City of Vancouver supplied building grades on Architectural and
Landscape plans.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 11
14C. Provision of a finalized Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan
to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services. Provide TDM Plan as a separate package with complete
information on TDM measures proposed including the following
clarifications:
• ACT-02 – Improved Access to Class A bicycle Parking
Provision of concept design for excellent design of lighting,
o
finishes, grades, convenience;
Provision of operational and design specifications for automated
o
bicycle parking (if applicable);
Identify the number and location of the Class A bicycle parking
o
provided above grade on plans, as well as note the access route
to reach the Class A bicycle parking from the outside;
Note to applicant: A total of 2 points appear achieveable for
excellent design and finishing given provision of the requested
information.
• SUP-03 – Multimodal Wayfinding Signage
Note to applicant: The proposed measure is not acceptable as a TDM
measure. Proposed wayfinding signage would direct individuals to the
nearby Musqueam Park only. It does not meet the intent for locating
signage at key destinations for directing individuals to transportation
services and infrastructure, including transit, bicycle share, car share
parking, bicycle parking and amenities.
Note to applicant: A TDM Plan with minimum 9 points is required to
achieve the proposed vehicle parking reduction (4 spaces). Refer to
Schedule B of the TDM policy for detailed requirements for each
measure. Provide TDM Plan as a separate package.
14D. Subject to the acceptance of an approved TDM Plan, entry into a TDM
agreement, to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services and the Director of Legal Services, which:
• Secures provision of funding towards long-term TDM monitoring fund
in the amount of $280 per parking space waived;
• Secures the provision of TDM measures on the site;
• Permits the City to access and undertake post occupancy monitoring
of the Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures
proposed;
• Agrees to make reasonable adjustments to the TDM measures as
requested by the City, based on the TDM monitoring results.
14E. Design development to improve access and design of bicycle parking and
comply with the Bicycle Parking Design Supplement.
• Provision of automatic door openers for all doors providing access to
Class A bicycle storage;
• Provision of minimum 5% of Class A bicycle lockers to be provided as
oversized spaces with a 1.5m (5’) aisle width;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 12
• Provision of maximum 30% of Class A bicycle spaces to be provided
as vertical spaces;
• Provision of minimum 10% of Class A bicycle spaces to be provided
as bicycle lockers.
14F. Design development to improve the parkade layout and access design
and comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services, including
the following:
• Provision of a maximum 6” encroachment into minimum vehicle
parking widths adjacent one wall.
Note to applicant: Consider increasing garage door widths to achieve this.
Note to applicant: 2.3m (7’ 6 ½”) of vertical clearance is required for
access and maneuvering to all disability spaces.
14G. The following information is required for drawing submission at the
development permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation review:
• All types of parking and loading spaces individually numbered,
dimensioned and labelled on the drawings;
• Dimensions for typical parking spaces;
• Section drawings showing minimum vertical clearances for parking
garages to the underside of raised security gates;
• Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A bicycle spaces to
reach the outside. Stair ramps are not generally acceptable.
14H. The following statement is to be placed on the landscape plan; This plan
is “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public property
may begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering, Development
Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
14I. Provision of a draft final Rainwater Management Plan (RWMP) prior to
DP issuance. As it is acknowledged that not all design components are
advanced fully at this stage, placeholders will be accepted in this
resubmission with the expectation the final report will include all relevant
details.
Note to applicant: The resubmission at DP must include the following
amendments;
• Amend the design of the proposed raingarden to include a closed
bottom as current building by-laws prohibit designed infiltration
systems within 5.0 m of building foundations. Consider a
closed-bottom b’s io-retention system to capture, treat and then
convey rainwater from the site;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 13
• A grading plan to support the proposal of grading hardscapes into
adjacent landscaping, Coordination with the landscape architect will
be required to support this proposal;
• Provide an updated site map detailing how rainwater will be directed
or retained in each area. Include the following:
All routing of rainwater throughout the site;
o
Confirm area and depth of landscaping to support the claim of
o
absorbent landscaping as a rainwater capture method.
14J. Provision of a FINAL RWMP prior to the issuance of any building permit
for the construction of any building, submitted to the satisfaction of the
Director of Planning and City Engineer.
14K. A Section 219 Rainwater Management Agreement Covenant will be
required once the Final RWMP is accepted by the City.”
AND FURTHER THAT Engineering condition 1 in Part 2 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report, be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
2. A Services Agreement is required to detail the on and off-site works and
services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site (collectively
called “the services”) such that they are designed, constructed and
installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street dedications and
rights of way for the services are provided. No development permit for the
site will be issued until the security for the services are provided. The
Service Agreement shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) Based on the confirmed Fire Underwriter’s Survey Required Fire
Flows and domestic flows submitted by Cardinal Engineering LTD.
dated April 5th, 2020, no water main upgrades are required to
service the development;
(b) A fire hydrant fronting the development needs to be installed.
Arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services and the Director of Legal Services will be
required to secure payment for the new hydrant installation. The
developer is responsible for 100% of the cost;
(c) The main servicing the proposed development is 300 mm along
Dunbar Street. Note: Should the development’s Fire Underwriter’s
Survey Required Fire Flow calculation change as the building
design progresses, a resubmission to the City of Vancouver
Waterworks Engineer is required for re-evaluation of the Water
System;
(d) Provision of street improvements along Dunbar Street adjacent to
the site and appropriate transitions including the following:
• Minimum 2.14m (7’) wide broom finish saw-cut concrete
sidewalk;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 14
• Upgraded street lighting (roadway and sidewalk) adjacent to
the site to current COV standards and IESNA
recommendations;
• Adjustment to all existing infrastructure to accommodate the
proposed street improvements;
(e) Provision of new or replacement duct banks adjacent the
development site that meet current City standards. Duct banks are
to consist of electrical and communication ducts sized to meet City
needs in a configuration acceptable by the General Manager of
Engineering Services and in conformance with applicable
electrical codes and regulations. A detailed design will be required
prior to the start of any associated street work;
Note to applicant: as-constructed documentation will be required
that includes photographic and measured evidence of the installed
number of conduits, their final locations and depths;
(f) All utility cuts on Dunbar Street are to be restored to City
“Industrial, Arterial and Bus Routes” specification and utility cuts
on the lane to be restored to the City’s “Higher Zoned
Streets/Lanes” specification;
(g) Milling and regrading the lane adjacent to the development site to
accommodate City supplied building grades will be required;
(h) Provision of funding for the installation of parking regulatory
signage on streets adjacent to the site to the satisfaction of the
General Manager of Engineering Services;
(i) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service to meet
the demands of the project;
The post-development 10-year flow rate discharged to the storm
sewer shall be no greater than the 10-year pre-development flow
rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curves, whereas the post-development estimate shall utilize the
2100 IDF curves to account for climate change;
Note to applicant: Development to be serviced to the existing
1050 mm STM and 450 mm SAN sewers in Dunbar Street;
Note to applicant: This property is under the Provincial
Well-Drilling Advisory Area, and subsurface flowing artesian
conditions may exist;
(j) Engineering Services will require all utility services to be
underground for this development. All electrical services to the site
must be primary with all electrical plant, which include but not
limited to System Vista, Vista switchgear, pad mounted
transformers and kiosks (including non-BC Hydro kiosks) are to be
located on private property with no reliance on public property for

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 15
placement of these features. The applicant plants are provided for
on-site;
(k) Submission of a Key Plan to the City for review and approval prior
to submission of any third party utility drawings may be required.
The Key Plan shall meet the specifications in the City of
Vancouver Engineering Design Manual Section 2.4.4 Key Plan
(https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/2015-002-clearances-from-the-
existing-bc-hydro-high-voltage-overhead-conductors-and-
transformers.pdf). All third party service lines to the development
shall be shown on the plan (e.g., BC Hydro, Telus, Shaw, etc. The
review of third party utility service drawings will not be initiated
until the Key Plan is defined. For questions on this requirement,
please contact the Utilities Management Branch at 604-829-9447
or at umb@vancouver.ca.”
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated June 9, 2020,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6031 Dunbar Street”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as
may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval amendments to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report
dated June 9, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6031 Dunbar Street”.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06270)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
3. CD-1 REZONING: 4750 Granville Street and 1494 West 32nd Avenue
An application by Stuart Howard Architects Inc. was considered as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 16
Summary: To rezone 4750 Granville Street and 1494 West 32nd Avenue from
RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District, to permit the development of a four-storey residential building with
81 secured market rental units. A maximum height of 13.3 metres (43.6 feet)
and a floor space ratio (FSR) of 1.60 are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated July 28, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4750
Granville Street and 1494 West 32nd Avenue – replacement of Engineering Conditions”, from
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which informed Council of
incomplete Engineering conditions contained in Appendix B of the Referral Report dated June 9,
2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4750 Granville Street and 1494 West 32nd Avenue”. The
changes do not create any material difference to the conditions and adds a few omitted details
which are routine Engineering requirements. The updated Engineering conditions are as
follows:
FURTHER THAT Engineering conditions 1 and 2 in Part 2 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report, be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 1 and 2, Block 791, District Lot 526, Plan 6011 to create a
single parcel and subdivision of that site to result in the dedication of the west
10 feet of the site (the building line area) for road purposes. A subdivision is
required to effect the dedication. A subdivision plan and application to the
Subdivision and Strata Group is required. For general information see the
subdivision website at: http://vancouver.ca/home-property-development/apply-to-
subdivide-or-join-properties.aspx
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on and off-site works and
services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site (collectively called
“the services”) such that they are designed, constructed and installed at no cost
to the City and all necessary street dedications and rights of way for the services
are provided. No development permit for the site will be issued until the security
for the services are provided.
(a) Based on the confirmed Fire Underwriter’s Survey Required Fire Flows
and domestic flows submitted by Creus Engineering Ltd. Dated
September 16, 2019, no water main upgrades are required to service the
development;
Note to Applicant: Should the development’s Fire Underwriter’s Survey
Required Fire Flow calculation change as the building design progresses,
a resubmission to the City of Vancouver Waterworks Engineer is required
for re-evaluation of the Water System;
(b) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service to meet the
demands of the project. Implementation of development at 4750 Granville
Street will require the following in order to improve COMB sewer flow
conditions:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 17
(i) Separate 37 m of 450 mm combined sewer main on West 29th
Avenue from the L/W of Granville St (MH__G65753) to MH in front
of 1551 West 29th Avenue (MH__FJCS2C) to a 675 mm STM
main, and a 250 mm SAN main;
(ii) The developer may submit a flow monitoring study to confirm the
extent of the upgrade, which is to be reviewed and accepted by
City Engineer. The study shall provide data for minimum 3 months
of wet weather flow and dry weather flow, to allow for model
calibration and flow estimate verification. The required upgrades
may be modified based on the outcomes of the flow monitoring
study, at the discretion of the City Engineer. Contact
utilities.servicing@vancouver.ca for direction prior to initiating any
flow monitoring work;
Note to Applicant: The COMB sewer upgrade on West 29th
Avenue from L/W Connaught Drive to Marguerite Street is
included in DCL program and will be delivered by the City;
(iii) The lengths and diameters of these improvements are
approximate and subject to detailed design by Developer’s
Engineer;
(iv) The post-development 5-year flow rate discharged to the storm
sewer shall be no greater than the 5-year pre-development flow
rate. The pre-development estimate shall utilize the 2014 IDF
curves, whereas the post-development estimate shall utilize the
2100 IDF curves to account for climate change;
(v) Developer’s Engineer to submit design brief, calculations and/or
model, and design drawings to the City. All submittals including
upgrade design drawings (90% design stage or better) are
required to be reviewed and accepted by the City Engineer prior to
development permit issuance;
(vi) Development to be serviced to the existing 200 mm SAN sewer
and 375 mm STM sewer in L/E Granville Street;
Note to Applicant: Groundwater requirements are not currently an
immediate concern at this site. The City may require a Hydrogeological
Study, Groundwater Management Plan, and/or Impact Assessment if
dewatering rates are significant or concerning, to the City’s discretion.
The developer is advised to undertake adequate investigations to
understand the site groundwater;
(c) Provision of speed humps in the lane east of the 4700-block of Granville
Street, from 32nd Avenue to Minto Crescent;
(d) Street improvements along Granville Street adjacent to the site and
appropriate transitions including the following:
(i) 1.83 m (6’) wide front boulevard with street trees where space
permits;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 18
(ii) 2.44 m (8’) wide broom finish saw-cut concrete sidewalk to COV
Standards;
(iii) Curb ramp;
(iv) Curb and gutter;
Note to Applicant: These improvements will require the removal of the
existing hedge within the building line area adjacent the site on Granville
Street and any new trees proposed outside of the front boulevard must be
located fully on private property outside of the dedication area;
(e) Street improvements along West 32nd Avenue adjacent to the site and
appropriate transitions including the following:
(i) 2.14m (7’) wide broom finish saw-cut concrete sidewalk to COV
standards;
(ii) Curb and gutter;
(iii) Removal of existing driveway on W 32nd Avenue and replace with
concrete curb, sidewalk and boulevard to current City of
Vancouver standards;
(iv) Provision of street trees where space permits;
(v) Mill and pave West 32nd Avenue near the laneway intersection
where the existing pavement surface has deteriorated;
(f) Provision of a new standard concrete pedestrian lane crossing, new
curb returns and curb ramps at the existing lane crossing on
West 32nd Avenue adjacent to the site;
(g) Rebuild lane along the development site’s frontage as per City of
Vancouver “Higher-Zoned Laneway” specification;
(h) Provision of installation of parking regulatory signage on streets adjacent
to the site to the satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering
Services;
Note to Applicant: Designs details of off-site improvements to be finalized
at the development permit stage;
(i) Provision of upgraded street lighting (roadway and sidewalk) adjacent to
the site, Granville/Minto and Granville/W 32nd intersection lighting to
current City of Vancouver (COV) standards and Illuminating Engineering
Society of North America (IESNA) recommendations;
(j) Provision of new duct banks adjacent to the development site that meets
current City standards. Ducts bank is to consist of electrical and
communication ducts sized to meet City needs;
Note to Applicant: The detailed Electrical Design will be required prior to
the start of any associated electrical work to the satisfaction of the

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 19
General Manager of Engineering Services and in conformance with
Standard Specification of the City of Vancouver for Street Lighting (draft),
Canadian Electrical Code and the Master Municipal Construction
Documents (the latest edition);
Note to Applicant: Should any existing City infrastructure adjacent to the
site be damaged during construction activities then the existing
infrastructure is to be replaced to current Standard Specification of the
City of Vancouver for Street Lighting (draft), Canadian Electrical Code
and the Master Municipal Construction Documents (the latest edition).
Replacement is to be determined at the sole discretion of the General
Manager of Engineering Services.
2A. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest existing
suitable service point for this “conditional” development. In addition, submission
of a written confirmation from BC Hydro that all required electrical plant is
provided for on the development property;
Note to Applicant: BC Hydro service to the site shall be primary. All BC Hydro
infrastructure (e.g., pad mounted transformer, vista switch and control kiosks)
shall be located on the development property;
Submission of a Key Plan to the City for review and approval prior to submission
of any third party utility drawings is required. The Key Plan shall meet the
specifications in the City of Vancouver Engineering Design Manual Section 2.4.4
Key Plan. All third party service lines to the development shall be shown on the
plan (e.g., BC Hydro, Telus, Shaw, etc.) and the applicant shall acquire written
acceptance from the third party utilities prior to submitting to the city. The review
of third party utility service drawings will not be initiated until the Key Plan is
completed. For questions on this requirement, please contact Utilities
Management Branch at 604-829-9447 or at umb@vancouver.ca”
AND FURTHER THAT the Engineering conditions in Part 1 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report, be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
19. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire the
project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize street use
during excavation & construction (i.e. consideration to the building design or
sourcing adjacent private property to construct from) and be aware that a
minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane erection / removal or slab pour
that requires additional street use beyond the already identified project street use
permissions.
20. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any portion
of the service connection above grade within the road right of way.
21. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal design
standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual section 02596 and
Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access around existing and future
utilities adjacent your site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 20
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be sought at
the building permit stage with final design achievements certified and confirmed
with survey and photographic evidence of removals and protection of adjacent
utilities prior to building occupancy. Provision of written acknowledgement of this
condition is required. Please contact StreetUseReview@vancouver.ca for details.
22. Submission of a letter confirmation construction dewatering is a Water Use
Purpose under the Water Sustainability Act requiring a provincial Approval or
License.
Note to Applicant: Applications for provincial Approvals or Licenses can be
completed online. The application will be received and accepted into the
province’s online system, and the provincial authorizations team strives for 140
days to get the approval to the applicant. The approval holder must be able to
produce their approval on site so that it may be shown to a government official
upon request. Dewatering before this approval is granted is not in compliance
with the provincial Water Sustainability Act.
23. Submission of an updated landscape and site plan to reflect the public realm
changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for this rezoning.
Where a design or detail is not available, make note of the improvement on the
site and/or landscape plans. The landscape plan is to include the following note:
“NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to Engineering
Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any construction proposed for
public property. No work on public property may begin until such plans receive
“For Construction” approval and related permits are issued. Please contact
Engineering, Development Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site
Inspector for details.”
24. Remove proposed trees from back boulevard of City of Vancouver property along
Granville Street.
24A. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Confirmation that a waste hauler can access
and pick up from the location shown is required. Pick up operations should not
require the use of public property for storage, pick up or return of bins to the
storage location.
24B. Design Development to improve access and design of loading spaces and
comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement.
(a) Provision of convenient, stair-free loading access to/from all site uses.
24C. Design development to improve the parkade layout and access design and
comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the satisfaction of
the General Manager of Engineering Services, including the following:
(a) Design development to improve the parkade layout to accommodate
visitor parking spaces separated from residential parking spaces by a
secure residential parking gate as per By-law (4.13.5).
24D. Provision of the following information is required for drawing submission at the
development permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation review:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 21
(a) A complete tech table is required showing the calculations for the
minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the number of
spaces being provided;
(b) All types of parking and loading spaces individually numbered, and
labelled on the drawings;
(c) Dimension of column encroachments into parking stalls;
(d) Show all columns in the parking layouts;
(e) Dimensions for typical parking spaces;
(f) Dimensions of additional setbacks for parking spaces due to columns and
walls;
(g) Dimensions of manoeuver aisles and the drive aisles at the parkade
entrance and all gates;
(h) Section drawings showing elevations and minimum vertical clearances for
parking levels, loading bays, ramps, and security gates. These
clearances must consider mechanical projections and built obstructions;
(i) Areas of minimum vertical clearances labelled on parking levels;
(j) Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and drive aisles at all
breakpoints, loading bays, disability spaces, and at all entrances. The
slope and length of the ramped sections at all breakpoints to be shown on
the submitted drawings;
(k) Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A bicycle spaces to
reach the outside. Stair ramps are not generally acceptable;
(l) Existing street furniture including bus stops, benches etc. to be shown on
plans;
(m) The location of all poles and guy wires to be shown on the site plan.
24E. Provision of a draft final Rainwater Management Plan (RWMP) prior to DP
issuance. As it is acknowledged that not all design components are advanced
fully at this stage, placeholders will be accepted in this resubmission with the
expectation the final report will include all relevant details.
24F. Provision of a FINAL RWMP prior to the issuance of any building permit for the
construction of any building, submitted to the satisfaction of the Director of
Planning and City Engineer.
Note to Applicant: The resubmission at DP must include the following
amendments.
(a) Provision of a report outlining how the current Rainwater Management
proposal meets the requirements for Volume Reduction, Release rate and
Water Quality as outlined in the Rainwater Management Bulletin. Note

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 22
that the required Volume Reduction from the site is 24 mm for all areas of
the site, with 48 mm required for only high traffic areas;
(b) Provision of an updated site map detailing the different surface types and
how rainwater will be directed or retained in each area. Include the
following:
(i) All routing of water throughout the site;
(ii) Buildings, patios and walkway locations;
(iii) Underground parking extents;
(iv) Location of any proposed detention tank, water quality treatment
and flow control system with connections to the sewer system;
(v) Area and depth of landscaping to support the claim of absorbent
landscaping as a rainwater capture method;
(c) Ensure all calculations are provided for pre and post development peak
flow rates, including R-value calculations and any assumptions used;
(d) Peak flow calculations for pre-development and post-development to use
1:5 year return period. Inlet time = 10 minutes. Travel time to be
estimated by applicant. Ensure that the pre-development calculation uses
the 2014 IDF curve values and the post-development calculation uses the
2100 IDF curve values;
(e) Exploration into grading hardscapes into adjacent (or lower level)
landscaping as referenced in the report but not detailed on the site plan.
Coordination with the landscape architect, soil storage capacities and a
grading plan will be required to support this proposal;
(f) Calculation of the detention tank volume to equal the greater of either the
pre-development peak flow storage volume or the amount of the 24 mm
rainfall not captured in Tier 1 & Tier 2 practices.”
24G. A Section 219 Rainwater Management Agreement Covenant will be required
once the Final RWMP is accepted by the City.”
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 236 pieces of correspondence in support;
• 229 pieces of correspondence in opposition; and
• 4 pieces of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 23
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability reviewed the application and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Richard Wittstock, Domus Homes, and W. Neil Robertson, Stuart Howard Architects, reviewed
the application and responded to questions.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers on July 28, 2020, Council recessed at 9:53 pm, and
reconvened on July 29, 2020, at 6:23 pm.
* * * * *
Speakers
On July 28, 2020, the Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Duncan Wade
• Dustin LaPrairie
• Andraya Avison
• David Hutniak, Chief Executive Officer, Landlord BC
• Kenneth Friesen
• Joelle Calof
• Devon Hussack
• Chantal Darvell
• Dave Downie
• Scott de Lange Boom
• Thomas Davidoff
• Richard Murray
• Brianne Samson
• Peter Waldkirch
• Shaun Lang
• Larkin MacKenzie-Ast
• Rebecca Hartley
• Daniel Oleksiuk, Abundant Housing Vancouver
• Josh Hayes, Director of Development, Lantern Properties Ltd.
• Sarah Chiu
• Norman Bishop
• Angie Hirata
• Stuart Smith, Abundant Housing Vancouver
• Morgan Brewster
• Mike Chu

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 24
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
• Shirley Hebenton
• Michael Jacobson
• Ken Rai
• Terri Clark
• Lynol Amero
• Fred Kozier
• Abby and Cameron Jones
• Robert Friesen
• Jeff Hebenton
• Ashley Hebenton
• Marianna Ciarniello
• Andrea Baxendale
• Kris Gustavson
• Estelle Jacobson
The following provided general comments on the application:
• Becky Kerfoot
On July 29, 2020, the speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:35 pm.
Staff Closing Comments
On July 29, 2020, staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with Engineering
Services, responded to additional questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
A. THAT the application by Stuart Howard Architects Inc., on behalf of Domus
Homes (1225413 BC Ltd), the registered owners, to rezone 4750 Granville Street
and 1494 West 32nd Avenue [PID 010-998-292; Lot 12, Block 790, District Lot
526, Plan 601; and PID 010-998-276; Lot 1, Block 791, District Lot 526, Plan
6011 respectively]; from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the floor space ratio (FSR)
from 0.70 to 1.60 and the height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to 13.3 m (43.6 ft.) to permit
the development of a four storey building containing a total of 81 secured market
rental housing units, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report
dated June 9, 2020 entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4750 Granville Street and
1494 West 32nd Avenue”, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Stuart Howard Architects Inc. and received on
December 11, 2020, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor
alterations to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 25
FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of Approval
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT Engineering conditions 1 and 2 in Part 2 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report, be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
1. Consolidation of Lots 1 and 2, Block 791, District Lot 526, Plan 6011 to
create a single parcel and subdivision of that site to result in the
dedication of the west 10 feet of the site (the building line area) for road
purposes. A subdivision is required to effect the dedication. A subdivision
plan and application to the Subdivision and Strata Group is required. For
general information see the subdivision website at:
http://vancouver.ca/home-property-development/apply-to-subdivide-or-
join-properties.aspx
2. Provision of a Services Agreement to detail the on and off-site works and
services necessary or incidental to the servicing of the site (collectively
called “the services”) such that they are designed, constructed and
installed at no cost to the City and all necessary street dedications and
rights of way for the services are provided. No development permit for the
site will be issued until the security for the services are provided.
(a) Based on the confirmed Fire Underwriter’s Survey Required Fire
Flows and domestic flows submitted by Creus Engineering Ltd.
Dated September 16, 2019, no water main upgrades are required
to service the development;
Note to Applicant: Should the development’s Fire Underwriter’s
Survey Required Fire Flow calculation change as the building
design progresses, a resubmission to the City of Vancouver
Waterworks Engineer is required for re-evaluation of the Water
System;
(b) Provision of adequate sewer (storm and sanitary) service to meet
the demands of the project. Implementation of development at
4750 Granville Street will require the following in order to improve
COMB sewer flow conditions:
(i) Separate 37 m of 450 mm combined sewer main on
West 29th Avenue from the L/W of Granville Street
(MH__G65753) to MH in front of 1551 West 29th Avenue
(MH__FJCS2C) to a 675 mm STM main, and a 250 mm
SAN main;
(ii) The developer may submit a flow monitoring study to
confirm the extent of the upgrade, which is to be reviewed
and accepted by City Engineer. The study shall provide
data for minimum 3 months of wet weather flow and dry
weather flow, to allow for model calibration and flow
estimate verification. The required upgrades may be
modified based on the outcomes of the flow monitoring

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 26
study, at the discretion of the City Engineer. Contact
utilities.servicing@vancouver.ca for direction prior to
initiating any flow monitoring work;
Note to Applicant: The COMB sewer upgrade on
West 29th Avenue from L/W Connaught Drive to
Marguerite Street is included in DCL program and will be
delivered by the City;
(iii) The lengths and diameters of these improvements are
approximate and subject to detailed design by Developer’s
Engineer;
(iv) The post-development 5-year flow rate discharged to the
storm sewer shall be no greater than the 5-year
pre-development flow rate. The pre-development estimate
shall utilize the 2014 IDF curves, whereas the
post-development estimate shall utilize the 2100 IDF
curves to account for climate change;
(v) Developer’s Engineer to submit design brief, calculations
and/or model, and design drawings to the City. All
submittals including upgrade design drawings (90% design
stage or better) are required to be reviewed and accepted
by the City Engineer prior to development permit issuance;
(vi) Development to be serviced to the existing 200 mm SAN
sewer and 375 mm STM sewer in L/E Granville Street;
Note to Applicant: Groundwater requirements are not currently an
immediate concern at this site. The City may require a
Hydrogeological Study, Groundwater Management Plan, and/or
Impact Assessment if dewatering rates are significant or
concerning, to the City’s discretion. The developer is advised to
undertake adequate investigations to understand the site
groundwater.
(c) Provision of speed humps in the lane east of the 4700-block of
Granville Street, from 32nd Avenue to Minto Crescent;
(d) Street improvements along Granville Street adjacent to the site
and appropriate transitions including the following:
(i) 1.83 m (6’) wide front boulevard with street trees where
space permits;
(ii) 2.44 m (8’) wide broom finish saw-cut concrete sidewalk to
COV Standards;
(iii) Curb ramp;
(iv) Curb and gutter;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 27
Note to Applicant: These improvements will require the removal of
the existing hedge within the building line area adjacent the site on
Granville Street and any new trees proposed outside of the front
boulevard must be located fully on private property outside of the
dedication area.
(e) Street improvements along West 32nd Avenue adjacent to the site
and appropriate transitions including the following:
(i) 2.14m (7’) wide broom finish saw-cut concrete sidewalk to
COV standards;
(ii) Curb and gutter;
(iii) Removal of existing driveway on West 32nd Avenue and
replace with concrete curb, sidewalk and boulevard to
current City of Vancouver standards;
(iv) Provision of street trees where space permits;
(v) Mill and pave West 32nd Avenue near the laneway
intersection where the existing pavement surface has
deteriorated;
(f) Provision of a new standard concrete pedestrian lane crossing,
new curb returns and curb ramps at the existing lane crossing on
West 32nd Avenue adjacent to the site;
(g) Rebuild lane along the development site’s frontage as per City of
Vancouver “Higher-Zoned Laneway” specification;
(h) Provision of installation of parking regulatory signage on streets
adjacent to the site to the satisfaction of the General Manager of
Engineering Services;
Note to Applicant: Designs details of off-site improvements to be
finalized at the development permit stage;
(i) Provision of upgraded street lighting (roadway and sidewalk)
adjacent to the site, Granville/Minto and Granville/West 32nd
intersection lighting to current City of Vancouver (COV) standards
and Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA)
recommendations;
(j) Provision of new duct banks adjacent to the development site that
meets current City standards. Ducts bank is to consist of electrical
and communication ducts sized to meet City needs;
Note to Applicant: The detailed Electrical Design will be required
prior to the start of any associated electrical work to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services and
in conformance with Standard Specification of the City of
Vancouver for Street Lighting (draft), Canadian Electrical Code

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 28
and the Master Municipal Construction Documents (the latest
edition);
Note to Applicant: Should any existing City infrastructure adjacent
to the site be damaged during construction activities then the
existing infrastructure is to be replaced to current Standard
Specification of the City of Vancouver for Street Lighting (draft),
Canadian Electrical Code and the Master Municipal Construction
Documents (the latest edition). Replacement is to be determined
at the sole discretion of the General Manager of Engineering
Services.
2A. Provision of all utility services to be underground from the closest existing
suitable service point for this “conditional” development. In addition,
submission of a written confirmation from BC Hydro that all required
electrical plant is provided for on the development property.
Note to Applicant: BC Hydro service to the site shall be primary. All BC
Hydro infrastructure (e.g., pad mounted transformer, vista switch and
control kiosks) shall be located on the development property.
Submission of a Key Plan to the City for review and approval prior to
submission of any third party utility drawings is required. The Key Plan
shall meet the specifications in the City of Vancouver Engineering Design
Manual Section 2.4.4 Key Plan. All third party service lines to the
development shall be shown on the plan (e.g., BC Hydro, Telus, Shaw,
etc.) and the applicant shall acquire written acceptance from the third
party utilities prior to submitting to the city. The review of third party utility
service drawings will not be initiated until the Key Plan is completed. For
questions on this requirement, please contact Utilities Management
Branch at 604-829-9447 or at umb@vancouver.ca”
AND FURTHER THAT the Engineering conditions in Part 1 of Appendix B of the
above-noted report, be replaced with the following:
“Engineering Services
19. The owner or representative is advised to contact Engineering to acquire
the project’s permissible street use. Prepare a mitigation plan to minimize
street use during excavation & construction (i.e. consideration to the
building design or sourcing adjacent private property to construct from)
and be aware that a minimum 60 days lead time for any major crane
erection / removal or slab pour that requires additional street use beyond
the already identified project street use permissions.
20. Provision of any gas service to connect directly to the building without any
portion of the service connection above grade within the road right of way.
21. Provision of construction details to determine ability to meet municipal
design standards for shotcrete removal (Street Restoration Manual
section 02596 and Encroachment By-law (#4243) section 3A) and access
around existing and future utilities adjacent your site.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 29
Note to Applicant: Detailed confirmations of these commitments will be
sought at the building permit stage with final design achievements
certified and confirmed with survey and photographic evidence of
removals and protection of adjacent utilities prior to building occupancy.
Provision of written acknowledgement of this condition is required. Please
contact StreetUseReview@vancouver.ca for details.
22. Submission of a letter confirmation construction dewatering is a Water
Use Purpose under the Water Sustainability Act requiring a provincial
Approval or License.
Note to Applicant: Applications for provincial Approvals or Licenses can
be completed online. The application will be received and accepted into
the province’s online system, and the provincial authorizations team
strives for 140 days to get the approval to the applicant. The approval
holder must be able to produce their approval on site so that it may be
shown to a government official upon request. Dewatering before this
approval is granted is not in compliance with the provincial Water
Sustainability Act.
23. Submission of an updated landscape and site plan to reflect the public
realm changes including all of the off-site improvements sought for this
rezoning. Where a design or detail is not available, make note of the
improvement on the site and/or landscape plans. The landscape plan is to
include the following note:
“NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” and is to be submitted for review to
Engineering Services a minimum of 8 weeks prior to the start of any
construction proposed for public property. No work on public property
may begin until such plans receive “For Construction” approval and
related permits are issued. Please contact Engineering, Development
Services and/or your Engineering, Building Site Inspector for details.”
24. Remove proposed trees from back boulevard of City of Vancouver
property along Granville Street.
24A. Clarify garbage pick-up operations. Confirmation that a waste hauler can
access and pick up from the location shown is required. Pick up
operations should not require the use of public property for storage, pick
up or return of bins to the storage location.
24B. Design Development to improve access and design of loading spaces
and comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement.
(a) Provision of convenient, stair-free loading access to/from all site
uses.
24C. Design development to improve the parkade layout and access design
and comply with the Parking and Loading Design Supplement to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Engineering Services, including
the following:
(a) Design development to improve the parkade layout to
accommodate visitor parking spaces separated from residential

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 30
parking spaces by a secure residential parking gate as per By-law
(4.13.5).
24D. Provision of the following information is required for drawing submission
at the development permit stage to facilitate a complete Transportation
review:
(a) A complete tech table is required showing the calculations for the
minimum required parking, loading, bicycle spaces and the
number of spaces being provided;
(b) All types of parking and loading spaces individually numbered,
and labelled on the drawings;
(c) Dimension of column encroachments into parking stalls;
(d) Show all columns in the parking layouts;
(e) Dimensions for typical parking spaces;
(f) Dimensions of additional setbacks for parking spaces due to
columns and walls;
(g) Dimensions of manoeuver aisles and the drive aisles at the
parkade entrance and all gates;
(h) Section drawings showing elevations and minimum vertical
clearances for parking levels, loading bays, ramps, and security
gates. These clearances must consider mechanical projections
and built obstructions;
(i) Areas of minimum vertical clearances labelled on parking levels;
(j) Design elevations on both sides of the ramps and drive aisles at
all breakpoints, loading bays, disability spaces, and at all
entrances. The slope and length of the ramped sections at all
breakpoints to be shown on the submitted drawings;
(k) Indicate the stair-free access route from the Class A bicycle
spaces to reach the outside. Stair ramps are not generally
acceptable;
(l) Existing street furniture including bus stops, benches etc. to be
shown on plans;
(m) The location of all poles and guy wires to be shown on the site
plan.
24E. Provision of a draft final Rainwater Management Plan (RWMP) prior to DP
issuance. As it is acknowledged that not all design components are
advanced fully at this stage, placeholders will be accepted in this
resubmission with the expectation the final report will include all relevant
details.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 31
24F. Provision of a FINAL RWMP prior to the issuance of any building permit
for the construction of any building, submitted to the satisfaction of the
Director of Planning and City Engineer.
Note to Applicant: The resubmission at DP must include the following
amendments.
(a) Provision of a report outlining how the current Rainwater
Management proposal meets the requirements for Volume
Reduction, Release rate and Water Quality as outlined in the
Rainwater Management Bulletin. Note that the required Volume
Reduction from the site is 24 mm for all areas of the site, with
48 mm required for only high traffic areas;
(b) Provision of an updated site map detailing the different surface
types and how rainwater will be directed or retained in each area.
Include the following:
(i) All routing of water throughout the site;
(ii) Buildings, patios and walkway locations;
(iii) Underground parking extents;
(iv) Location of any proposed detention tank, water quality
treatment and flow control system with connections to the
sewer system;
(v) Area and depth of landscaping to support the claim of
absorbent landscaping as a rainwater capture method;
(c) Ensure all calculations are provided for pre and post development
peak flow rates, including R-value calculations and any
assumptions used;
(d) Peak flow calculations for pre-development and post-development
to use 1:5 year return period. Inlet time = 10 minutes. Travel time
to be estimated by applicant. Ensure that the pre-development
calculation uses the 2014 IDF curve values and the
post-development calculation uses the 2100 IDF curve values;
(e) Exploration into grading hardscapes into adjacent (or lower level)
landscaping as referenced in the report but not detailed on the site
plan. Coordination with the landscape architect, soil storage
capacities and a grading plan will be required to support this
proposal;
(f) Calculation of the detention tank volume to equal the greater of
either the pre-development peak flow storage volume or the
amount of the 24 mm rainfall not captured in Tier 1 & Tier 2
practices.”
24G. A Section 219 Rainwater Management Agreement Covenant will be
required once the Final RWMP is accepted by the City.”

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 28 and 29, 2020 32
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated June 9, 2020,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4750 Granville Street and 1494 West 32nd Avenue”,
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject
to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director
of Legal Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval amendments to the
Subdivision By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report
dated June 9, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 4750 Granville Street and 1494
West 32nd Avenue”.
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06282)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned on July 29, 2020, at 9:39 pm.
* * * * *