SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
July 29, 2020
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, July 29, 2020, at
4:00 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purposes of considering a pilot for
liquor consumption in public places and the necessary amendments to the City Land Regulation By-
law No. 8735 Regarding Consumption of Liquor on City Land to enable the pilot This Special Council
meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law and
the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
Prior to the start of the agenda, Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest on Item 1 as he is
part owner of a liquor primary establishment. Councillor Wiebe left the meeting at 4:04 pm and did
not return for the duration of the meeting.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, July 29, 2020 2
1. Alcohol Consumption in Public Spaces Pilot - Recommendations
July 11, 2020
Margaret Wittgens, Deputy General Manager, Engineering Services, presented on the above-noted
item and responded to questions along with the following:
• Sadhu Johnston, City Manager;
• Howard Chow, Deputy Chief Constable, Vancouver Police Department (VPD); and
• Lisa Parker, Branch Manager, Street Activities, Public Space and Street Crossroads-Use
Division
* * * * *
At 4:41 pm, during questions to staff, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enter into a second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
At 4:53 pm, following questions to staff, it was,
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be extended past 5 pm to complete the business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
Council heard from one speaker that spoke in favour of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the City Land Regulation By-law
No. 8735 to designate certain public places over which the City has jurisdiction as places
where liquor may be consumed;

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, July 29, 2020 3
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
by Council a By-law to amend the City Land Regulation By-law to designate these places,
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Report dated July 11, 2020, entitled “Alcohol
Consumption in Public Spaces Pilot – Recommendations”.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following clause be added to the end:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back in Q2 2021 on the feasibility of
enabling licensed restaurants to allow patrons to consume an alcoholic beverage
while waiting for a table immediately adjacent to the food establishment.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06272)
(Councillor Boyle opposed)
(Councillors De Genova and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the following clause be added to the end:
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to amend the DRAFT By-law to amend the
City Land Regulation By-law No. 8735 Regarding Consumption of Liquor on City
Land, specifically by changing the proposed Section 4C (c) by striking “4:00 pm” and
replacing it with “12:00 pm”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06273)
(Councillors De Genova, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
Prior to the vote, Council agreed to sever the components of the motion as amended with the first
clause put and having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06274) with Councillor Kirby-Yung
abstaining from the vote and Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest; the
second clause was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 06275) with Councillors De Genova and Hardwick
opposed and Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest; the third clause was put
and CARRIED (Vote No. 06276) with Councillor Boyle opposed, Councillors De Genova and
Hardwick abstaining from the vote and Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of
interest; and the fourth clause was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 06277) with Councillors De Genova,
Kirby-Yung and Hardwick opposed and Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of
interest.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the City Land Regulation By-law
No. 8735 to designate certain public places over which the City has jurisdiction as places
where liquor may be consumed;

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, July 29, 2020 4
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
by Council a By-law to amend the City Land Regulation By-law to designate these places,
generally as set out in Appendix A of the Report dated July 11, 2020, entitled “Alcohol
Consumption in Public Spaces Pilot – Recommendations”;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back in Q2 2021 on the feasibility of enabling
licensed restaurants to allow patrons to consume an alcoholic beverage while waiting for a
table immediately adjacent to the food establishment;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to amend the DRAFT By-law to amend the City
Land Regulation By-law No. 8735 Regarding Consumption of Liquor on City Land,
specifically by changing the proposed Section 4C (c) by striking “4:00 pm” and replacing it
with “12:00 pm”.
2. A By-law to amend the City Land Regulation By-law No. 8735 Regarding Consumption
of Liquor on City Land
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enact the by-law as amended entitled “A By-law to amend the City Land
Regulation By-law No. 8735 Regarding Consumption of Liquor on City Land”, listed on the
agenda for this meeting as item number 2 with amendments following the approved
amended motion above entitled “Alcohol Consumption in Public Spaces Pilot –
Recommendations”; specifically, by changing the proposed section 4C (c) by striking “4:00
pm” and replacing it with “12:00 pm”; and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal
the enacted by-law as amended.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06279)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
A By-law to amend the City Land Regulation By-law No. 8735 Regarding Consumption of Liquor on
City Land (By-law No. 12756)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
The Special Council meeting adjourned at 5:53 pm.
* * * * *