PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JULY 7, 2020
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 7, 2020, at 6:25 pm, in the
Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by electronic
means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of
the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Tamarra Wong, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. CD-1 Rezoning: 1111-1123 Kingsway
An application by 1076164 B.C. Ltd. (Peterson Group) was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 1111-1123 Kingsway from C-2 (Commercial) District to CD-1
(Comprehensive Development) District to permit the development of a 14-
storey, mixed-use building with commercial uses at grade and 131 secured
rental housing units, of which 20 per cent of the residential floor area will be
reserved as moderate-income units. A height of 44.2 metres (145 feet) and a
floor space ratio (FSR) of 5.58 are recommended.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 2
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 37 pieces of correspondence in support;
 13 pieces of correspondence in opposition; and
 1 piece of correspondence dealing with other aspects of the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
Peter Odegaard, Architect, MCM, provided a presentation.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
 Kelly Hager
 Kosta Segounis
 Michael Buchan
 Ronald Lau
 Elise Spearing
 Carey Buntain
 Pawel Szydlowski
 Abraham Cheung
 Shawnessy Luke
 Craig Patterson
 Brennan Finley
 Karim Winsor
 Scott de Lange Boom
The following spoke in opposition of the application:
 Zachary Hyde

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 3
 Kelly Talayco
 Ann Stewart Hunter
 Connor Stewart Hunter
The Mayor called for additional speakers for and against the application:
The following spoke in support of the application:
 Yosh Koshara
 Rebecca Chaster
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:27 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT the application by 1076164 B.C. Ltd. (Peterson Group), the registered
owner of the lands located at 1111-1123 Kingsway [Lot V, Block 58, District Lot
301, Group 1, Plan 21267, PID 007-643-888; and Lot L, Block 58, District Lot
301, Plan 3257, PID 013-023-667], to rezone the lands from C-2 (Commercial)
District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to increase the permitted
floor space ratio (FSR) from 2.5 to 5.58 and building height from 13.8 m (45.3 ft.)
to 44.2 m (145 ft.) for the development of a 14-storey mixed-use building, with
131 secured rental housing units, of which 20 per cent of the residential floor
area will be secured as moderate income units, generally as presented in
Appendix A of the Referral Report dated April 14, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning:
1111-1123 Kingsway”, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Musson Cattell Mackey Partnership and
received on July 5, 2019, with revisions submitted on December 12, 2019 and
January 23, 2020, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations
to this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of
development;
AND FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of
Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted Referral Report.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report, dated April 14, 2020,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1111-1123 Kingsway”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
prior to enactment of the zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as
may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 4
C. THAT, the application to amend the Sign By-law to establish regulations for this
CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
April 14, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1111-1123 Kingsway”, be approved.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval amendments to the Noise
Control By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
April 14, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 1111-1123 Kingsway”.
E. THAT A through D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06183)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 8:49 pm and reconvened at 8:55 pm.
* * * * *
2. 3350 Marine Way and 3565 Sawmill Crescent - Amendments to CD-1 (566) and
East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan
An application by Park Lane River District Developments Ltd. (Wesgroup Properties) was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the CD-1 (566) (Comprehensive Development) District and the
East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan by-laws to permit secured rental
housing and retail uses on Parcels 14 and 19 with no additional floor area,
and to increase Parcel 19 floor area by 1,858 square metres (20,000 square
feet) to permit a community energy centre. The proposal includes moving the
49-space childcare centre from Parcel 19 to an alternative location in East
Fraser Lands.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 5
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
Since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public
comments, Council has received eight pieces of correspondence in opposition to the
application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and along with
staff from Engineering Services, responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Brad Jones, Vice President of Development, Wesgroup Properties, responded to questions.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke to other aspects of the application, providing comments on the delay of
child care development in the East Fraser Lands:
 Sharon Gregson
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:25 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
The applicant provided brief closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided closing comments.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 6
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT the application by Park Lane River District Developments Ltd. (Wesgroup
Properties) to amend CD-1 (566) By-law No. 10941 to achieve the following
changes in Area 1, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report
dated May 5, 2020, entitled “3350 Marine Way and 3565 Sawmill Crescent -
Amendments to CD-1 (566) and East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan”,
be approved in principle;
(i) Amendments to allow secured market rental housing use and retail uses
on Parcels 14 and 19 (sub-area 2);
(ii) Increase floor area by 1,858 sq. m. (20,000 sq. ft.) to permit a community
energy centre on Parcel 19; and
(iii) Move the 49-space childcare centre from Parcel 19 to an alternative
location in East Fraser Lands;
FURTHER THAT the above approval be subject to the Conditions of Approval
contained in Appendix C of the above-noted Referral Report.
B. THAT the consequential amendment to the East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan By-law No. 9393, generally in accordance with Appendix B of
the Referral Report dated May 5, 2020, entitled “3350 Marine Way and 3565
Sawmill Crescent - Amendments to CD-1 (566) and East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan” also be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment the by-law to amend the East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan
By-law, at the time of enactment of the by-law to amend CD-1 (566) By-law No.
10941.
C. THAT, subject to approval of the amendment to CD-1 (566) By-law No. 10941,
the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed
to bring forward for Council adoption, at the time of enactment of the amending
by-law, updates to the East Fraser Lands Phase 1 Design Guidelines, generally
as presented in Appendix D of the Referral Report dated May 5, 2020, entitled
“3350 Marine Way and 3565 Sawmill Crescent - Amendments to CD-1 (566) and
East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan”.
D. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the cost;

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 7
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the sole risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT Council ask staff to expedite the creation of childcare spaces in the East
Fraser Lands and report back by Q4 on how this can be done.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06184)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06185).
3. Amendments to the False Creek Area Development Plan for Area 10B
An application by the City of Vancouver, General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability, was considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the False Creek Area Development Plan for Area 10B (Area
Development Plan) to create a new Development Area for the site located at
1595 West 2nd Avenue. The amendments would permit the future
development of a six-storey affordable rental residential building with
commercial uses on the ground floor.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 8 pieces of correspondence in support;
 14 pieces of correspondence in opposition; and
 2 pieces of correspondence dealing with other aspects of the application.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 8
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation.
* * * * *
Following staff’s presentation, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be extended past 10 pm to complete hearing from speakers and
refer questions to staff, debate and decision to the Council meeting following the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on July 8, 2020.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
 Christopher Whyte
The following spoke in opposition of the application:
 Pat Jacobsen
 Arnold Silber
The following provided general comments on the application:
 Johannes van der Slagt
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:28 pm.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, July 7, 2020 9
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:29 pm.
* * * * *