COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 7, 2020
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, July 7, 2020, at
9:31 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order
No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 2
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose; and
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – June 23, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of June 23, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Public Hearing – June 23, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing meeting of June 23, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – June 24, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting of June 24, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Public Hearing – June 25 and 30, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing meeting of June 25 and 30, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 3
5. Special Council (Public Hearing) – June 30, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Public Hearing) meeting of June 30, 2020, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
6. Special Council (Sign By-law Appeal Hearing) – June 30, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Sign By-law Appeal Hearing) meeting of
June 30, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Reports 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND ITEMS 3, 6 and 7
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
PRESENTATIONS
1. Climate Emergency Response - Accelerated Actions & Greenest City Action Plan
Update
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided an
introduction to the item and staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, presented the
update and along with Engineering Services staff responded to questions.
Council received the presentation for information.

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 4
REPORTS
1. Business Licence Hearing Panels – September to November 2020
June 4, 2020
THAT Council delegate the holding of hearings under Section 275 or 278, or appeals
under Sections 277 of the Vancouver Charter, for those hearing dates designated by
Council to a panel of three Council Members as follows:
September 9 – 6:00pm
Cllr De Genova – Chair
Cllr Carr
Cllr Kirby-Yung
Cllr Wiebe – Alternate
September 29 – 9:30am
Cllr Boyle – Chair
Cllr Bligh
Cllr Swanson
Cllr Fry – Alternate
October 13 – 9:30am
Cllr Hardwick – Chair
Cllr De Genova
Cllr Dominato
Cllr Kirby-Yung – Alternate
October 14 – 6:00pm
Cllr Fry – Chair
Cllr Hardwick
Cllr Swanson
Cllr Dominato – Alternate
November 17 – 9:30am
Cllr Bligh – Chair
Cllr Boyle
Cllr Wiebe
Cllr De Genova – Alternate
November 18 – 6:00pm
Cllr Boyle – Chair
Cllr Carr
Cllr Kirby-Yung
Cllr Bligh – Alternate
Should any of the above members of Council be unable to attend the hearings, the
hearings and the power to make a Council decision in relation to those hearings will be
delegated to the remaining two Councillors and alternate Councillor.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06176)

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 5
2. 2020 Transportation Safety Update
June 19, 2020
Paul Storer, Director, Transportation, presented updates on transportation safety as well as a
broader update on transportation.
Council heard from two speakers in support of a shared-use scooter program.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT Council approve the implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of a slow
zone demonstration project in Grandview-Woodland, using funding from existing
sources, with a report back in 2022.
B. THAT Council direct staff to advance design of pilot programs with the Province
to test and advance blanket reduced speed limits and micromobility devices, to
be delivered under the Ministry of Transportation’s Motor Vehicle Act Pilot
Program.
C. THAT Council receive for information the Neighbourhood Traffic Management
(NTM) program, and prioritize NTM plans to improve safety in the Strathcona and
Hastings-Sunrise neighbourhoods, using funding from existing sources.
D. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law
to remove time of day and time of week restrictions on 30 km/h school and
playground zones, making them effective 24 hours per day, 7 days a week, and
instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for enactment a by-law
generally in accordance with Appendix D.
E. THAT Council approve a change to the Annual Speed Hump Program to exempt
school and playground zones from consultation.
amended
At 11:41 am, it was,
MOVED BY Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council hear from speakers to Item 2 prior to recessing for lunch.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 6
At 11:55 am, it was,
MOVED BY Councillor Carr
SECONDED BY Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting extend past noon in order to hear from the remaining speakers to
Item 2.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12:12 pm and reconvened at 2:14 pm.
* * * * *
Following the recess, staff from Engineering Services, responded to questions from Council.
AMENDMENT MOVED BY Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED BY Councillor De Genova
THAT in B, the following text be inserted after the word “devices” and before the words
“to be delivered…”
“including both privately owned e-scooters and a shared e-scooter program trial
(similar to municipal e-scooter share programs operating in cities such as
Edmonton and Calgary that provide for cost recovery for municipalities through
fees charged to operators, as well as gives consideration of best practices for
scooter parking and safety)”
LOST (Vote No. 06160)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson and Mayor Stewart opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added to the end:
THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back in Q2 2021 on a streamlined
process for residents to identify and submit input on road safety improvements
such as the need for pedestrian crossings and signage in residential areas, near
schools and bus stops;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to prioritize pedestrian crossings at
intersections with bus stops and streets that see high pedestrian traffic.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06161)

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 7
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back in Q2 2021 on the feasibility of a
second phase of the Neighbourhood Traffic Management Plan for Hastings-Sunrise that
would address traffic flows between Nanaimo Street and Boundary Road (West-East)
and Hastings Street and Wall/McGill/Bridgeway/Cambridge Streets (North-South) to
respond to resident and business concerns about safety.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06162)
The amendments having either lost or carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 6163)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve the implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of a slow
zone demonstration project in Grandview-Woodland, using funding from existing
sources, with a report back in 2022.
B. THAT Council direct staff to advance design of pilot programs with the Province
to test and advance blanket reduced speed limits and micromobility devices to be
delivered under the Ministry of Transportation’s Motor Vehicle Act Pilot Program.
C. THAT Council receive for information the Neighbourhood Traffic Management
(NTM) program, and prioritize NTM plans to improve safety in the Strathcona and
Hastings-Sunrise neighbourhoods, using funding from existing sources.
D. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Street and Traffic By-law
to remove time of day and time of week restrictions on 30 km/h school and
playground zones, making them effective 24 hours per day, 7 days a week, and
instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for enactment a by-law
generally in accordance with Appendix D of the Report entitled “2020
Transportation Safety Update”, dated June 19, 2020.
E. THAT Council approve a change to the Annual Speed Hump Program to exempt
school and playground zones from consultation.
F. THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back in Q2 2021 on a streamlined
process for residents to identify and submit input on road safety improvements
such as the need for pedestrian crossings and signage in residential areas, near
schools and bus stops;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to prioritize pedestrian crossings at
intersections with bus stops and streets that see high pedestrian traffic.
G. THAT Council direct staff to explore and report back in Q2 2021 on the feasibility
of a second phase of the Neighbourhood Traffic Management Plan for Hastings-
Sunrise that would address traffic flows between Nanaimo Street and Boundary
Road (West-East) and Hastings Street and Wall/McGill/Bridgeway/Cambridge
Streets (North-South) to respond to resident and business concerns about safety.

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 8
3. Modification of Lease for Aunt Leah’s Independent Lifeskills Society at 1101
Seymour Street
June 9, 2020
A. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute the modification of an existing lease (the “Lease”) with Aunt Leah’s
Independent Lifeskills Society (“Aunt Leah’s Place”) for premises located on the
3rd floor at 1101 Seymour Street (the “Leased Premises”), to incorporate any
required changes to the Lease to effect the following modifications:
i. Removing the current 3rd floor area (1,654 square feet of exclusive use area)
from the Leased Premises, and replacing it with other premises on the 3rd
floor (3,383 square feet of exclusive use area), as shown in Appendix A of the
Report entitled “Modification of Lease for Aunt Leah’s Independent Lifeskills
Society at 1101 Seymour Street”, dated June 9, 2020, thereby increasing the
total exclusive use area of the Leased Premises by 1,729 square feet for a
new total of 3,383 square feet. The increased floor area results in a
commensurate increase in the amount payable at the current rate as
“Building Operating Costs” as provided for in Sections 1.08 and 1.09 of the
Lease (from currently $14,059/annum to $28,755.50/annum, plus applicable
sales taxes);
ii. The modification of lease (the “Modification”), including for clarity the increase
to Building Operating Costs referenced in A.i above, shall take effect on
October 1, 2020 (the “Effective Date”). Aunt Leah’s Place shall be permitted
early possession of the new location of the Leased Premises beginning
September 15, 2020, to accommodate the move and transition of operations
by Aunt Leah’s Place from their current space on the 3rd floor; and
iii. The Modification shall incorporate any changes to the Lease as deemed
necessary to effect the provisions as set out in this A above, but shall
otherwise be on the same terms and conditions set out in the Lease, and
upon such other terms and conditions to the satisfaction of the Director of
Legal Services in consultation with the General Manager of Real Estate and
Facilities Management and the General Manager of Arts, Culture, and
Community Services;
FURTHER THAT as the rent for the additional floor area to be included in the
Leased Premises will be below the applicable market rate and includes rent-in-
lieu of property taxes, A above constitutes a grant valued at approximately
$68,300 per annum for the incremental floor area of 1,729 square feet and
approximately $133,600 per annum for the new total floor area of 3,383 square
feet, based on the current year of the Term.
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations be created or arise by Council’s adoption of
A above until the Modification has been executed by all parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06177)

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 9
4. Defer 2020 Sale of Land for Taxes
June 22, 2020
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, a by-law to defer the date of the 2020 sale of
land for taxes until November 10, 2021, in accordance with Provincial Ministerial
Order No. M159, “Local Government Finance (COVID-19) “, issued under the
Emergency Program Act and generally in accordance with Appendix A, of the
Report entitled “Defer 2020 Sale of Land for Taxes”, dated June 22, 2020.
B. THAT Council not extend the redemption deadline for properties that have a
redemption period ending in 2020 as permitted in Provincial Ministerial Order No.
M159, “Local Government Finance (COVID-19) “, issued under the Emergency
Program Act.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services, in consultation with the Director of Finance,
be instructed to bring forward for enactment a by-law generally in accordance
with Appendix A, of the Report entitled “Defer 2020 Sale of Land for Taxes”,
dated June 22, 2020.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06179)
5. Alignment of Occupancy Limits between Building and Fire By-Laws
June 10, 2020
At the beginning of the meeting, Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest on Item 5 as he
is part owner of a liquor primary establishment. Councillor Wiebe left the meeting at 3:26 pm
and returned after the completion of the items at 4:31 pm.
Council agreed to hear from speakers in advance of questions to staff.
Council heard from six speakers in support of staff’s recommendations, with some expressing a
desire for the City to revisit the moratorium on additional liquor seats currently in place in some
areas.
Following speakers, Rick Cheung, Deputy Fire Chief, along with the City Manager, responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Fire By-law No. 12472 to align
Vancouver’s occupant load with the occupant load set out in the BC Fire Code;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment by Council a By-law to amend the Fire By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix A, to come into force and take effect upon enactment.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 10
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following be added to the end:
THAT Council direct staff to review the lifting of and steps required to cease the
liquor moratoria applicable to additional liquor seats in consultation with the
Vancouver Police Department, Hospitality Vancouver Association, and relevant
BIA’s, and prepare necessary policy and by-law amendments to enable existing
Liquor Primary establishment and other assembly uses to benefit from the
above-noted amendments to the Fire By-law to enable a one-time expansion of
their occupant load capacity to align with Provincial building and fire code
requirements;
THAT consideration be given to use of a one-time blanket approval to the
Province for the above be provided by the City in order to assist with the
processing of applications;
FURTHER that Council direct staff give consideration to potential increases in
associated application and permit fees in order to support cost recovery of the
processing of such applications;
FURTHER that Council direct staff to give consideration to the requirement for
use of a registered professional by establishments with respect to establishing
what occupant load can be sustained by their current building configuration prior
to submitting an occupancy application, in order to help expedite the work and
time required by the City to process such applications.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor
THAT the first section of the amendment be deleted and replaced with the following:
THAT Council direct staff to report back with clarification around moratoria on
additional liquor seats including updated research and current context for any
reconsideration of the policy in consultation with relevant authorities and
advocates; and to report back on specific considerations including any necessary
policy and by-law amendments to enable existing Liquor Primary establishments
and other assembly uses to enable one-time occupancy expansions to align with
the occupant load set out in the BC Fire Code, notwithstanding moratoria.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06164)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06165) with Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to
conflict of interest.

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 11
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following be added to the end:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to review the policy and guidelines on the
distancing requirements between liquor primary establishments of the same
classification, and explore in conjunction with the Province and LCRB, the
possibility in the immediate future of a one-time increase in distancing
requirements between establishments to prevent the costly potential
reclassification of those that apply for an increase in occupancy load.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06166)
(Councillor Swanson opposed)
(Councillors Boyle and De Genova abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
The amendments having lost or carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06167) with Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of
interest.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Fire By-law No. 12472 to align
Vancouver’s occupant load with the occupant load set out in the BC Fire Code;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment by Council a By-law to amend the Fire By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Report entitled “Alignment of Occupancy Limits between Building and
Fire By-Laws”, dated June 10, 2020, to come into force and take effect upon enactment;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back with clarification around moratoria on
additional liquor seats including updated research and current context for any
reconsideration of the policy in consultation with relevant authorities and advocates; and
to report back on specific considerations including any necessary policy and by-law
amendments to enable existing Liquor Primary establishments and other assembly uses
to enable one-time occupancy expansions to align with the occupant load set out in the
BC Fire Code, notwithstanding moratoria;
FURTHER THAT consideration be given to use of a one-time blanket approval to the
Province for the above be provided by the City in order to assist with the processing of
applications;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff give consideration to potential increases in
associated application and permit fees in order to support cost recovery of the
processing of such applications;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to give consideration to the requirement for use of
a registered professional by establishments with respect to establishing what occupant
load can be sustained by their current building configuration prior to submitting an
occupancy application, in order to help expedite the work and time required by the City

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 12
to process such applications;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to review the policy and guidelines on the
distancing requirements between liquor primary establishments of the same
classification, and explore in conjunction with the Province and Liquor and Cannabis
Regulation Branch, the possibility in the immediate future of a one-time increase in
distancing requirements between establishments to prevent the costly potential
reclassification of those that apply for an increase in occupancy load.
6. Vancouver Heritage Foundation – Heritage Conservation Grants Program Report
2019/20
June 8, 2020
A. THAT Council approve the Heritage Conservation Grants Program – Annual
Report 2019/20 attached as Appendix A of the Report entitled “Vancouver
Heritage Foundation – Heritage Conservation Grants Program Report 2019/20”
dated June 8, 2020.
B. THAT Council approve payment of a grant to the Vancouver Heritage Foundation
in the amount of $300,000 for the implementation of the second year of the
Heritage Conservation Grants Program, source of funding 2020 Capital Budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06181)
7. Heritage Façade Grant – 3495-3505 Commercial Street - DP-2019-00435
May 27, 2020
A. THAT Council approve a façade grant of up to $50,000 to the owner,
Hudsonmorris (3495 Commercial) Holdings Corp. (the “Applicant”), for the
rehabilitation of the principal facade of a building (the “Heritage Building”) on
lands having a civic address of 3495-3505 Commercial Street (PID: 031-118-500;
Lot A District Lot 751 Group 1 New Westminster District Plan EPP102275 (the
“Property”)) as contemplated by Development Permit Application Number DP-
2019-00435 (the “Application”); source of funds is the 2020 Capital Budget for
the Heritage Façade Rehabilitation Program.
B. THAT as a condition of approval of the façade grant, the Applicant be required to
enter into an agreement with the City, to be registered against title to the Property
as a covenant under section 219 of the Land Title Act, which agreement will
require the rehabilitation to be overseen by a qualified Heritage Consultant and
will require the owner of the Property to maintain the principal façade of the
Building in good appearance and good repair for a minimum of fifteen years.
C. THAT the agreement described above shall be prepared, registered and given
priority to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services in consultation with the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06182)

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 13
At 4:35 pm it was,
MOVED BY Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
THAT Council continue the meeting until 5:30 pm and then break from 5:30 to 6:30 pm.
CARRIED
(Councillors Dominato, De Genova, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed)
8. Community Housing Incentive Program Grants
June 5, 2020
Staff from Arts, Culture, and Community Services; Finance, Risk and Supply Chain
Management, along with the City Manager, responded to questions.
The Mayor called for registered speakers for the item, none were present.
At 5:01 pm it was,
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council call for the vote on Item 8.
CARRIED AND BY THE
REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06169)
(Councillors De Genova and Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Dominato abstained from the vote)
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council approve a grant of up to $890,000 to the Finnish Canadian Rest
Home Association (“Finnish Care Home”)(a registered non-profit society) to
assist with the construction of its proposed social housing development (the
“Development”) at 2230 Harrison Drive, legally described as PID: 018-035-361;
Lot F, Block 24, Fraserview Plan LMP7749.
B. THAT Council approve a grant of up to $655,000 to the Lee’s Benevolent
Association of Canada (“Lee’s Seniors’ Housing”) (a registered non-profit society)
to assist with the construction of its proposed social housing development (the
“Development”) at 835-837 East Hastings Street, legally described as PID:
027-090-256; Lot G, Block 61, District Lot 181, Group 1, New Westminster
District Plan BCP30460.
C. THAT Council approve a grant of up to $910,000 to the The Governing Council of
the Salvation Army in Canada (“Salvation Army”) (a registered non-profit society)
to assist with the construction of its proposed social housing development (the
“Development”) at 128-138 East Cordova Street, legally described as PID:

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 14
015-686-221; Lot 33-39, Block 9, District Lot 196, Plan 184.
D. THAT Council approve a grant of up to $6,255,000 to the Aboriginal Land Trust
Society (“ALT”)/Lu’ma Aboriginal Housing Society (“Lu’ma”) (a registered
non-profit society) to assist with the construction of its proposed social housing
development (the “Development”) at 52-92 East Hastings, legally described as
PID: 023-332-891; Lot G, F, 12, 16 & 17, Block 13, District Lot 196, Plan
LMP27049 & VAP184.
E. THAT the issuance of the grants be subject to the following conditions:
i. Execution of a grant agreement (the “Grant Agreement”) on the terms and
conditions as outlined in this report (or signing and returning a grant letter
agreeing in writing to its terms); and
ii. Confirmation of funding / financing sources for the Development being
secured to the satisfaction of the Director of Finance and the Director of
Legal Services.
F. THAT the Grant Agreements and/or grant approval letters be on the terms
generally outlined in this Report and otherwise satisfactory to the General
Manager Arts, Culture and Community Services, Director of Finance, and
Director of Legal Services.
G. THAT the General Manager Arts, Culture and Community Services be authorized
to execute a grant approval letter, and the City Solicitor be authorized to execute
the Grant Agreements, on behalf of the City.
H. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A, B, C and D
above unless and until the Grant Agreements (or letters of approval) is executed
and delivered by the City and the above referenced non-profit societies and
confirmation of funding / financing sources for the Development has been
secured to the satisfaction of the Directors of Finance and Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND A TO D
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06171)
BY-LAWS
Councillors De Genova and Dominato advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the
meeting related to by-law 1 and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and authorize the Mayor and

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 15
City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council, enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 2 to 5
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
1. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (686-688 East 22nd Avenue, 3811-3891 Fraser Street and 679 East 23rd Avenue)
(By-law No. 12726)
Councillor Kirby-Yung ineligible for the vote.
2. A By-law to amend Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law No. 9755 regarding for
profit affordable rental housing (By-law No. 12727)
3. A By-law to amend Area Specific Development Cost Levy By-law No. 9418 regarding for
profit affordable rental housing (By-law No. 12728)
4. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1805 Larch Street (By-law No. 12729)
5. A By-law to defer the 2020 Tax Sale (By-law No. 12730)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development - 167 East 36th Avenue – Little Mountain
Building AB
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 167 East 36th Avenue
– Little Mountain Building AB be approved generally as illustrated in the Development
Application Number DP-2019-00252, prepared by Stantec, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on April 24, 2019, provided that the
Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would
not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06168)

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 16
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Leave of Absence Requests
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Councillor Wiebe be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings between 9:30 am to 1:30 pm, on Wednesday, July 15, 2020;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Wiebe be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings between 9:30 am to 4:30 pm, on Wednesday,
July 22, 2020.
B. THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings between Tuesday, July 14, through Friday, July 17, 2020,
inclusive.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06173)
2. Ending Street Checks in Vancouver
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
WHEREAS
1. People and organizations around the world and in Vancouver (including the
British Columbia Civil Liberties Association, Union of British Columbia Indian
Chiefs, Black Lives Matter Vancouver, and the Hogan’s Alley Society) are calling
for reforms to how police services are delivered, including ending street checks -
the practice of stopping a person outside of an investigation, and often obtaining
and recording their personal information;
2. Data released by the Vancouver Police Department in 2018 showed almost
100,000 street checks were conducted by the VPD between 2008 and 2017, with
Indigenous and Black people being significantly overrepresented in these checks
compared to their proportion of the population;
3. Following the implementation of new provincial guidelines in January 2020, VPD
has reported a 91% reduction in street checks;
4. The Vancouver Police Board has recently committed to new actions to improve
policing services including: establishing a new Black and African Diaspora
Advisory Committee, providing historical awareness and cultural sensitivity
training for current and future officers regarding the experiences of Black people,
participating in anti-bias and cultural sensitivity training, working with the existing
Indigenous Advisory Committee to improve training for current and future officers
regarding Indigenous Peoples cultural sensitivity, enhancing communication
between the Board, Vancouver City Council, and the Musqueam regarding the

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 17
provision of policing services in Vancouver, and, reviewing the efficacy of the
new street check policy;
5. Police Act Section 26 states “In consultation with the chief constable, the
municipal police board must determine the priorities, goals and objectives of the
municipal police department” and that “in determining the priorities, goals and
objectives of the municipal police department, the municipal police board must
take into account….the priorities, goals and objectives of the council of the
municipality”;
6. The Vancouver Police Board has the authority to end the practice of street
checks in Vancouver; and
7. While Police Act Section 25 states the Mayor of Vancouver chairs the Vancouver
Police Board in an ex-officio capacity without the ability to vote on Police Board
matters except in the event of a tie and cannot move board motions.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct the Mayor to write to the
Vancouver Police Board to inform the Board that while Council deeply appreciates
recent efforts to reform policing services and the efforts of the Police Department to
quickly implement related changes, Vancouver City Council’s priority is to end the
practice of street checks in Vancouver.
not put
REFERRAL MOVED BY Councillor Boyle
SECONDED BY Councillor Swanson
THAT the motion entitled “Ending Street Checks in Vancouver” be referred to the
Council meeting following the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
meeting on Wednesday, July 8, 2020.
not put
AMENDMENT TO THE REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the proposed amendment be struck and replaced with the following:
THAT the motion entitled “Ending Street Checks in Vancouver” be referred to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on Wednesday,
July 8, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
LOST (Vote No. 06175)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe abstained from the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, July 7, 2020 18
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council call the vote on the proposed amendment to the referral.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06170)
The motion and the referral of the motion that was on the floor of Council at the time of
adjournment will be carried to the next scheduled Council meeting on July 21, 2020, as
Unfinished Business.
Council adjourned at 5:30 pm.
* * * * *
Due to time constraints the following items were not dealt with and as such, will be placed on
the next Council Agenda scheduled for July 21, 2020:
B. Council Members’ Motions
2. Ending Street Checks in Vancouver (to be continued per above notes)
3. Retail Revolution – Bringing Digital Main Street to Vancouver
4. Decriminalizing Poverty and Supporting Community-led Safety Initiatives
5. Enhanced Mobility Options to Support Post Pandemic Recovery through a Shared
e-Scooter and an e-Bike Pilot Program
6. Enabling Creative and Easily Replicated “Missing Middle” Housing Pilots
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
NEW BUSINESS
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS