SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
SIGN BY-LAW APPEAL HEARING
JUNE 30, 2020
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 30, 2020,
at 6:00 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose of considering an
applicant request for reconsideration of the decision of the Director of Planning in refusing to
issue a Sign Permit. This Special Council meeting was convened by electronic means as
authorized under the Part 14 of the Procedure By-law, the City of Vancouver Electronic
Meetings Regulation, and the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the
Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Councillor Christine Boyle – Leave of Absence
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. Applicant request for Council reconsideration of refused Sign Permit SI 2019 0078,
654 Nelson Street
Grant Murray, Legal Services, provided an overview of the process whereby Council was to
consider an application for reconsideration of a sign permit decision made by the Director of

Special Council Meeting (Sign By-law Appeal Hearing)
Minutes, Tuesday, June 30, 2020 2
Planning. Mr. Murray reviewed the sections of the Vancouver Charter and Sign By-law which
govern Council’s role in this regard. He noted that Council may decide to either uphold, overturn
or vary the decision of the Director of Planning, and that it should provide the reasons for its
decision.
Applicant Comments
Jeff Leung, speaking on behalf of the Belmont Hotel, spoke to the history of the neon lights and
signs and nightlife in the area and spoke to the hardship they feel they would experience in
being unable to utilize the full features of the sign, and responded to questions.
Staff Comments
Jason Olinek, Assistant Director of Planning, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability,
provided an overview of the Report dated June 2, 2020, entitled “Applicant Request for
Reconsideration of Refused Sign Permit: 654 Nelson Street”. Mr. Olinek reviewed the process
and considerations for unnecessary hardship for this application and the rationale for the refusal
of the sign permit which led to the request for reconsideration before Council. Mr Olinek along
with additional staff from Planning Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions.
Speakers
Council heard from one speaker, Charles Gauthier, President and CEO, Downtown Vancouver
Business Improvement Association, who spoke in opposition of the recommendation.
Council Questions
Council asked staff for additional information on upcoming changes to sign by-laws and staff
agreed to provide Council with a memorandum outlining the prospective changes.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council uphold the decision by the Director of Planning on March 26, 2020, to
refuse Sign Permit SI-2019-00782 because the proposed sign does not comply with the
Sign By-law and does not meet the requirements for relaxation due to unnecessary
hardship.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06158)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe opposed)

Special Council Meeting (Sign By-law Appeal Hearing)
Minutes, Tuesday, June 30, 2020 3
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Special Council Meeting (Sign By-law Appeal Hearing) adjourned at 7:30 pm.
* * * * *