SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 30, 2020
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 30, 2020,
at 3:00 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the for the purpose of convening a
Public Hearing to consider zoning by-law amendments related to temporary patios. This Special
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Part 14 of the
Procedure By-law, the City of Vancouver Electronic Meetings Regulation, and the Order of the
Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency
Program Act, Ministerial Order No. M192.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
ABSENT: Councillor Christine Boyle – Leave of Absence
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 30, 2020 2
Prior to the start of the item, Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest on item 1, as he is
part owner of a liquor primary establishment with a private patio. Councillor Wiebe left the
meeting at 3:04 pm and did not return for the remainder of the meeting.
1. Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Temporarily Allow Patios on
Private Property for Businesses
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend Section 10, General Regulations, of the Zoning and Development By-
law to add a section to temporarily allow outdoor patios for businesses on private
property until October 31, 2020 on sites where patios are currently not permitted
and are deemed suitable by the Director of Planning.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
Two pieces of correspondence in support were received since referral to Public Hearing and
prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, provided a presentation, and responded
to questions.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• David Bowkett, Owner, Powell Street Craft Brewery
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 3:34 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral Report dated June 9, 2020, entitled
“Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Temporarily Allow Patios for

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Tuesday, June 30, 2020 3
Businesses on Private Property”, to temporarily allow until October 31, 2020 for
permitted uses to be carried on outside of a completely enclosed building until October
31, 2020.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06156)
(Councillor Wiebe absent due to conflict of interest)
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council enacts the by-law entitled “A By-law to Amend Zoning and Development
By-law No. 3575 Regarding Temporary Permission to Carry on a Use Outside of a
Completely Enclosed Building”, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal
the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06157)
(Councillor Wiebe absent due to conflict of interest)
A By-law to Amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 Regarding Temporary
Permission to Carry on a Use Outside of a Completely Enclosed Building (By-law No. 12725)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Special Council meeting adjourned at 3:43 pm.
* * * * *