COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 17, 2025
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 17, 2025, at
9:32 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened in
person and via electronic means as authorized by Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry*
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague*
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Paul Mochrie, City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team
members who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and
play.
PROCLAMATION – World Refugee Day
The Mayor proclaimed June 20, 2025, as World Refugee Day in the city of Vancouver.
The Mayor offered his condolences to the friends and family of Jenny Moss, highlighting the
pivotal role she played in the formation of MAP-BC (Multi-Agency Partnership), shortly after
co-founding the “First Contact” program, a Red Cross referral service for claimants upon first

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 2
arrival at BC Ports of Entry. He noted she provided a united voice for refugee claimants with
unwavering dedication to supporting those in need.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being
considered for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another
position appointed by the city;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the
Council considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the
interests of the city;
(f) law enforcement, if the Council considers that disclosure could reasonably be
expected to harm the conduct of an investigation under or enforcement of an
enactment;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an
activity, work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of
the Council, could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they
were held in public;
FURTHER THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the
public, pursuant to Section 165.2(2) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related
to paragraph:
(b) the consideration of information received and held in confidence relating to
negotiations between the city and a provincial government or the federal
government or both, or between a provincial government or the federal
government or both and a third party.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 3
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – June 3, 2025
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of June 3, 2025, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – June 4, 2025
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting of June 4, 2025, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council adopt Reports 4, 5 and 7 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. By-law Enactment - A By-law to amend the Code of Conduct By-law No. 12886
regarding independent reviews
Due to a loss of quorum at the Special Council meeting on June 12, 2025, this item was placed
on the Council agenda of June 17, 2025, as Unfinished Business.
This item originated at the Special Council meeting on August 6, 2024, which recessed to
September 25, 2024. On September 25, 2024, the meeting was recessed to April 9, 2025.
Subsequently, on April 9, 2025, the meeting recessed to June 12, 2025, at 6 pm.
At the beginning of the item, Councillor Kirby-Yung rose and declared conflict of interest under
Section 145.2(2.b) of the Vancouver Charter, as she has an open complaint submitted against
her with the Office of the Integrity Commissioner. She left the meeting at 9:20 am and did not
return until the beginning of the next item, at 9:27 am.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 4
* * * * *
At this point on the proceedings, Councillor Fry rose on a point of order under section 8.7(b) and
8.7(f) of the Procedure By-law, noting the item is out of order as it conflicts with an existing
by-law and is frivolous. Following a brief recess, the Chair agreed with Councillor Fry and ruled
the item out of order.
* * * * *
REPORTS
1. Reconciliation and Language Revitalization: Renaming Trutch Street to
šxʷməθkʷəy̓ əmasəm Street
June 17, 2025
Staff from the City Manager’s Office, Engineering Services, and Chief Wayne Sparrow,
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam Indian Band), provided a presentation and along with staff from
Technology Services responded to questions.
Council heard from four speakers, two who spoke in opposition to the report recommendations
and two who spoke to other aspects of the report.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT Trutch Street, as shown on the maps attached as Appendix A to the
Report dated June 17, 2025, entitled “Reconciliation and Language
Revitalization: Renaming Trutch Street to šxʷməθkʷəyə̓ masəm Street”, be
renamed šxʷməθkʷəyə̓ masəm Street, in recognition of a request by xʷməθkʷəy̓əm
(Musqueam Indian Band) to change the name of the street, the gift of a
hən̓qə̓ minə̓ m ̓ name from xʷməθkʷəy̓əm, and the City’s work toward Reconciliation
and strengthening relations with xʷməθkʷəyə̓ m.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward, for Council
enactment, an amendment to the Street Name By-law generally in accordance
with Appendix B of the Report dated June 17, 2025, entitled “Reconciliation and
Language Revitalization: Renaming Trutch Street to šxʷməθkʷəyə̓ masəm Street”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10768)
2. Supporting Development Viability and Unlocking New Housing Supply
June 3, 2025
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation, and along with
staff from Finance and Supply Chain Management, responded to questions.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 5
* * * * *
During questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT under section 5.4(e) of the Procedure By-law, Council be permitted to ask a
second round of questions to staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:58 am and reconvened at 3:11 pm.
* * * * *
Council heard from five speakers, four who spoke in support of the report recommendations and
one who spoke to other aspects of the report.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Vancouver Development
Cost Levy By-law, the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost Levy By-law and
the Area Specific Development Cost Levy By-law that authorize an option for
applicants to pay their Development Cost Levies (DCL) in three equal
installments for development projects with DCLs valued over $500,000, generally
aligning with the payment by installment framework in the Local Government Act
and generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Report dated June 3, 2025,
entitled “Supporting Development Viability and Unlocking New Housing Supply”;
FURTHER THAT Council approve, in-principle, an amendment to the Vancouver
Building By-law to impose a cost recovery fee of $1,000 be collected from each
applicant for a deferral;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring
forward for enactment by Council amendments to the Vancouver Development
Cost Levy By-law, the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost Levy By-law, the
Area Specific Development Cost Levy By-law and the Vancouver Building By-law
as generally set out in Appendix A of the above-noted report, to give effect to the
deferral option.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back on further measures to optimize
development cost levy payment timing and/or deferrals, including possible
Vancouver Charter amendments.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 6
C. THAT Council amend the Community Amenity Contributions (CAC) Policy for
Rezonings to lower the minimum required cash CAC payment due at zoning
by-law enactment from $20 million to $5 million and in the City’s sole discretion
allow the balance above $5 million to be deferred post-enactment as set out in
Appendix B of the Report dated June 3, 2025, entitled “Supporting Development
Viability and Unlocking New Housing Supply”, along with associated
administrative amendments;
FURTHER THAT this change, upon applicant request, be applicable to new
rezoning applications and applications that have been approved in principle by
Council but have not yet been enacted, as shown in Appendix C of the
above-noted report.
D. THAT Council approve foregoing the calculated 2025 inflationary rate adjustment
of 3.2% for the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law, the Vancouver
Utilities Development Cost Levy By-law, the Area Specific Development Cost
Levy By-law; and to Community Amenity Contribution targets and density bonus
contributions.
E. THAT Council approve foregoing the inflationary rate adjustment of 5.7% to
Community Amenity Contribution targets and density bonus contributions that
was approved in-principle in 2024 but deferred to 2025.
F. THAT Council approve, in principle, an amendment to reduce the Development
Cost Levy rate for “works yard for public bus transportation” in the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-law and the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost
Levy By-law, to be effective upon approval of this recommendation as generally
set out in Appendix A of the Report dated June 3, 2025, entitled “Supporting
Development Viability and Unlocking New Housing Supply”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment by Council amendments to the Vancouver Development Cost Levy
By-law and the Vancouver Utilities Development Cost Levy By-law to give effect
to F above.
G. THAT Council delegate the authority to revise the financial security requirements
for rezoning applications to allow “pay-on-demand” Surety Bonds as financial
security for infrastructure and amenity obligations, in the sole discretion of the
Director of Legal Services and the Chief Financial Officer, in consultation with the
City Engineer, provided that all financial security revisions are generally in
accordance with the criteria in Appendix D of the Report dated June 3, 2025,
entitled “Supporting Development Viability and Unlocking New Housing Supply”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND G BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 10769)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 7
3. Local Improvement – Project List of Consideration – Court of Revision 642
May 16, 2025
Staff from Engineering Services responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the two petition projects, listed in Appendix I of the Report dated May 16, 2025,
entitled “Local Improvement – Project List of Consideration – Court of Revision 642”, be
advanced as Local Improvements and be brought before a Court of Revision on
June 26, 2025.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10770)
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
4. Vancouver Heritage Foundation (VHF) Heritage Conservation Grant Program –
Annual Report 2024-2025 and Grant Release for 2025
May 2, 2025
A. THAT Council receive for information the Heritage Conservation Grant Program –
Annual Report 2024-2025, prepared by Vancouver Heritage Foundation,
attached as Appendix A of the Report dated May 2, 2025, entitled “Vancouver
Heritage Foundation (VHF) Heritage Conservation Grant Program – Annual
Report 2024-2025 and Grant Release for 2025”.
B. THAT Council approve payment of a grant from the 2025 Capital Budget to the
Vancouver Heritage Foundation in the amount of $300,000 for the
implementation of the third year of the Heritage Conservation Grant Program
(2024-2025).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND B BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 10774)
5. 2025 Homelessness Services Grants
May 15, 2025
A. THAT Council approve 18 Homelessness Services (“HS”) grants totalling
$43,000 from the 2025 Arts, Culture and Community Services Housing Services
Operating Budget to the organizations listed in Appendix A of the Report dated
May 15, 2025, entitled “2025 Homelessness Services Grants”, for the amounts
recommended in the "2025 Recommend" column to create awareness and
engage residents in solutions to homelessness and support individuals
experiencing homelessness.
B. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization that is to receive a grant pursuant to A above, and that is not a

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 8
registered charity with Canada Revenue Agency, to be contributing to the health
and welfare of the city.
C. THAT the City’s General Manager of Arts, Culture, and Community Services be
authorized to execute agreements that disburse the grants recommended in the
Report dated May 15, 2025, entitled “2025 Homelessness Services Grants”, and
that contain terms and conditions approved by the City's Director of Legal
Services.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A to C above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 10775)
6. Selection of and Terms for Social Housing Operator at 488 Broughton Street
April 22, 2025
Staff from the City Manager’s Office responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council approve the City of Vancouver executing an operating agreement with
FirstService Residential BC Ltd. (“FirstService”), pursuant to which FirstService is to
operate the 60 social housing units and the common areas of the development located
at 488 Broughton Street, based on the key terms outlined in the Report dated April 22,
2025, entitled “Selection of and Terms for Social Housing Operator at 488 Broughton
Street”, and upon such other terms and conditions to the satisfaction of the Managing
Director of Non-Market Housing Development, the Director of Finance, and the Director
of Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10771)
7. Supervised Indoor Inhalation Spaces
June 3, 3035
THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Health By-law that exempt the
buildings at 611 Powell Street and 220 Princess Avenue from the non-smoking rules in
the Health By-law, and as generally set out in Appendix A of the Report dated June 3,
2025, entitled “Supervised Indoor Inhalation Spaces”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment by Council a By-law to amend the Health By-law, generally as set out in

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 9
Appendix A of the above-noted report, to be effective immediately upon enactment.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 10776)
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda in order to complete Report 8 after
completing the remainder of the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Note: For ease of reference, the minutes are recorded in numerical order.
* * * * *
8. Vancouver Official Development Plan Legislatively Required Consultation
May 20, 2025
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT Council, regarding the development of the new Vancouver Official Development
Plan, and having considered whether the opportunities for consultation with certain
persons, organizations and authorities should be early and ongoing, and being aware of
its obligation to provide at least one opportunity for consultation with persons,
organizations and authorities it considers will be affected, hereby directs staff to consult
with:
a. Metro Vancouver Regional District;
b. First Nations: Musqueam Indian Band, Squamish Nation, Tsleil-Waututh Nation;
c. Councils of adjacent municipalities: Cities of Burnaby, North Vancouver,
Richmond, Districts of North Vancouver and West Vancouver, as well as the
administration of the University Endowment Lands;
d. Boards of Education: Vancouver School Board and Conseil Scolaire
Francophone; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 10
e. The provincial and federal governments and their agencies: Agricultural Land
Commission, BC Housing, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation,
Housing, Infrastructure and Communities Canada (Formerly Infrastructure
Canada), Ministry of Housing and Municipal Affairs, Ministry of Indigenous
Relations and Reconciliation, Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of
Transportation and Transit, Transport Canada.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the following be added to the end of the motion:
FURTHER THAT staff reach out to the following types of organizations to invite
submissions for consideration on the Vancouver Official Development Plan:
a. Urban indigenous organizations such as the Metro Vancouver Aboriginal
Executive Council (MVAEC), Urban Native Youth Association (UNYA),
Aboriginal Front Door, and the Vancouver Urban Indigenous Peoples’
Advisory Committee (UIPAC);
b. Community and resident organizations that are focused on housing
issues in Vancouver, such as The Vancouver Tenants Union, Abundant
Housing Vancouver, BC Non Profit Housing Association, Carnegie
Community Action Project, the SRO Research Collaborative, and the
Renters Advisory Committee;
c. Ethnocultural Organizations such as Filipino BC, the Jewish Federation of
Greater Vancouver, Hogans Alley Society, Khalsa Diwan Society
Vancouver, and the Vancouver Racial & Ethno-Cultural Equity Advisory
Committee;
d. Community and resident organizations that are focused on equity issues
in Vancouver, such as BC Poverty Reduction Coalition, and Disability
Alliance BC; and
e. Public sector union locals which work in Vancouver area public service
delivery such as CUPE 15, CUPE 1004, CUPE 391, BCGEU, and HEU.
CARRIED (Vote No. 10772)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Montague and Zhou opposed)
(Councillors Dominato and Meiszner abstained from the vote)
(Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 10733), with Councillor Montague and Mayor Sim absent for the
vote.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 11
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council, regarding the development of the new Vancouver Official Development
Plan, and having considered whether the opportunities for consultation with certain
persons, organizations and authorities should be early and ongoing, and being aware of
its obligation to provide at least one opportunity for consultation with persons,
organizations and authorities it considers will be affected, hereby directs staff to consult
with:
a. Metro Vancouver Regional District;
b. First Nations: Musqueam Indian Band, Squamish Nation, Tsleil-Waututh Nation;
c. Councils of adjacent municipalities: Cities of Burnaby, North Vancouver,
Richmond, Districts of North Vancouver and West Vancouver, as well as the
administration of the University Endowment Lands;
d. Boards of Education: Vancouver School Board and Conseil Scolaire
Francophone; and
e. The provincial and federal governments and their agencies: Agricultural Land
Commission, BC Housing, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation,
Housing, Infrastructure and Communities Canada (Formerly Infrastructure
Canada), Ministry of Housing and Municipal Affairs, Ministry of Indigenous
Relations and Reconciliation, Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of
Transportation and Transit, Transport Canada.
FURTHER THAT staff reach out to the following types of organizations to invite
submissions for consideration on the Vancouver Official Development Plan:
a. Urban indigenous organizations such as the Metro Vancouver Aboriginal
Executive Council (MVAEC), Urban Native Youth Association (UNYA), Aboriginal
Front Door, and the Vancouver Urban Indigenous Peoples’ Advisory Committee
(UIPAC);
b. Community and resident organizations that are focused on housing issues in
Vancouver, such as The Vancouver Tenants Union, Abundant Housing
Vancouver, BC Non Profit Housing Association, Carnegie Community Action
Project, the SRO Research Collaborative, and the Renters Advisory Committee;
c. Ethnocultural Organizations such as Filipino BC, the Jewish Federation of
Greater Vancouver, Hogans Alley Society, Khalsa Diwan Society Vancouver, and
the Vancouver Racial & Ethno-Cultural Equity Advisory Committee;
d. Community and resident organizations that are focused on equity issues in
Vancouver, such as BC Poverty Reduction Coalition, and Disability Alliance BC;
and

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 12
e. Public sector union locals which work in Vancouver area public service delivery
such as CUPE 15, CUPE 1004, CUPE 391, BCGEU, and HEU.
BY-LAWS
Councillors Fry and Klassen advised they had reviewed the proceedings related to By-law 3 and
would therefore be voting on the enactment.
Councillors Bligh, Fry and Kirby-Yung advised they had reviewed the proceedings related to
By-law 4 and would therefore be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 5, and authorize the Mayor and
City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 4 inclusive, and 6 to 13
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-Law to Amend Procedure By-Law No. 12577 regarding form of development and
other miscellaneous amendments (By-law No. 14982)
2. A By-law to amend Street Name By-law No. 4054 regarding šxʷməθkʷəy̓əmasəm Street
(By-law No. 14983)
3. A By-law to amend CD-1 (82) By-law No. 4671 (749 West 33rd Avenue, 4865-4885
Heather Street, 4818 Willow Street and 4885 Saint John Paul II Way) (By-law No.
14984)
(Councillors Maloney, Orr, and Mayor Sim ineligible to vote)
4. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to CD-1
(523-549 East 10th Avenue) (By-law No. 14985)
(Councillors Dominato, Maloney, and Orr ineligible to vote)
5. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
CD-1 (26) to RR-3B (4635-4675 Arbutus Street) (By-law No. 14986)
(Councillors Maloney, Orr, and Mayor Sim ineligible to vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 13
6. A By-law to amend CD-1 (26) By-law No. 4078 (4615 and 4683-4701 Arbutus Street,
4620-4676 Yew Street, and 2105 West 32nd Avenue) (By-law No. 14987)
(Councillors Maloney, Orr, and Mayor Sim ineligible to vote)
7. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2088 West 43rd Avenue (By-law No. 14988)
8. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2555 Discovery Street (By-law No. 14989)
9. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 8 East Broadway (formerly 2-24 East
Broadway and 2520 Ontario Street) (By-law No. 14990)
10. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 2520-2544 West 16th Avenue and 3223
Larch Street (By-law No. 14991)
11. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1369-1381 Kingsway (By-law No. 14992)
12. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for (i) 5392-5472 Manson Street and (ii) 5250-
5270 Ash Street and 595 West 37th Avenue (By-law No. 14993)
13. A By-law to amend Health By-law No. 9535 regarding exemptions from smoking
regulations (By-law No. 14994)
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Opening Doors: Expanding Ownership Options for Laneway and Backyard Homes
Councillor Klassen co-submitted with Councillor Kirby-Yung a notice of Council Member’s
Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion may be placed on the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting agenda of July 9, 2025, as a Council Members’ Motion.
2. From Vacancy to Vitality: Launching a Temporary Use Pilot for Empty Storefronts
in the Downtown Eastside
Councillor Klassen submitted a notice of Council Member’s Motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting agenda of July 9, 2025, as a Council Members’ Motion.
3. Unlocking the Creative and Economic Potential of Vancouver's Railtown District
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of Council Member’s Motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting
agenda of July 9, 2025, as a Council Members’ Motion.
4. FCM 2028 Annual Conference Bid
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of Council Member’s Motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting
agenda of July 9, 2025, as a Council Members’ Motion.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 14
5. A Drain on Resources and Resources Down the Drain: Pulling the Plug on In-Sink
Garbage Disposal
Councillor Fry submitted a notice of Council Member’s Motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting
agenda of July 9, 2025, as a Council Members’ Motion.
6. Developing a Vision Zero Road Safety Policy and Action Plan
Councillor Maloney co-submitted with Councillor Meiszner a notice of Council Member’s Motion
on the above-noted matter. The motion may be placed on the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting agenda of July 9, 2025, as a Council Members’ Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on June 19, 2025, from 6 pm onwards, on July 9, 2025, from 9:30 am to
12 pm, and on July 23, 2025, from 5 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Zhou be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on June 18, 2025, from 3 pm to 5 pm, and July 17, 2025, from 6:30 pm
onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Zhou be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on July 15, 2025, from 3 pm to 7:30 pm, July 17, 2025, from 3 pm to 6:30 pm,
October 2, 2025, from 2:30 pm to 7 pm, and on November 4, 2025, from 4:30 pm
onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Klassen be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business
from meetings on June 18, 2025, from 3:30 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Klassen be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings from September 29 to October 15, 2025, all day;
FURTHER THAT Mayor Sim be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on June 17, 2025, from 5 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Bligh be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business from
meetings on June 17, 2025, from 5 pm onwards;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Fry be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons
from meetings on June 17, 2025, from 6 pm onwards;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 17, 2025 15
FURTHER THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for personal
reasons from meetings on June 26, 2025, all day;
AND FURTHER THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on July 16 and 17, 2025, all day.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. E-Bike Fires
Councillor Dominato requested a report back from Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services on the
risk of e-bike fires. She noted several recent incidents of fires and damage to homes. She
requested to better understand the issue and how it relates to Vancouver’s Building Code with
regard to bike storage in multi-dwelling buildings. The Deputy City Manager agreed to follow-up.
2. Granville Island
Councillor Bligh requested an update and information on the status of the City’s ongoing work
with the Granville Island topic that has been in the media lately. She noted there has been quite
a few discussions and she is particularly interested in the City’s role in relationship to the
province and federal government. The Deputy City Manager agreed to follow-up.
* * * * *
At this point in the proceedings, Mayor Sim left the meeting and relinquished the Chair to Acting
Mayor Dominato for the remainder of the meeting.
* * * * *
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
Council adjourned at 4:48 pm.
* * * * *