SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 11, 2020
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday, June 11, 2020,
at 3:32 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose of considering
supporting small business recovery by enabling restaurants, wineries, distilleries and breweries to
access temporary outdoor patios on private property, waiving permit fees for temporary patios and
by enabling increased capacity at liquor primary establishments. This Special Council meeting
was convened by electronic means as authorized under Part 14 of the Procedure By-law and the
Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Thursday, June 11, 2020 2
1. Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to Temporarily Allow Patios on
Private Property for Businesses
June 9, 2020
At 3:35 pm Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest on items 1 through 4, as he is part
owner of a liquor primary establishment with a private patio. Councillor Wiebe left the meeting at
3:36 pm and did not return for the remainder of the meeting.
Jessie Adcock, General Manager, Development, Building & Licensing, along with Margaret
Wittgens, Deputy General Manager, Engineering, and Chris Robertson, Assistant Director,
City-wide and Regional Planning, presented Zoning and Development By-law Amendments to
Temporarily Allow Patios on Private Property for Businesses. Following the presentation the
staff team along with staff from Legal Services and the City Manager, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design & Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-Law to
temporarily allow for uses to be carried on outside of a completely enclosed
building until October 31, 2020, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated June 9, 2020, entitled “Zoning and Development By-law
Amendments to Temporarily Allow Patios on Private Property for Businesses”.
B. THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
amending By-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the Referral
Report dated June 9, 2020, entitled “Zoning and Development By-law
Amendments to Temporarily Allow Patios on Private Property for Businesses”,
for consideration at Public Hearing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06074)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
2. A By-law to Amend Street Vending By-law No. 10868 Regarding Amendment to
Patio Definitions
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council enacts the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as items 2 and 3,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06075)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
A By-law to amend Street Vending By-law No. 10868 Regarding Amendment to Patio
Definitions (By-law No. 12713)

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Thursday, June 11, 2020 3
3. A By-law to Enact Temporary Patio and Street Vending Fees
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council enacts the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as items 2 and 3,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06075)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
A By-law to enact Temporary Patio and Street Vending Fees (By-law No. 12714)
4. Motion: Expanding Occupant Load Capacity of Liquor Primary Establishments
and Other Assembly Uses to Support COVID Economic Recovery
Council heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council direct staff to prepare necessary Fire by-law amendments to enable
Liquor Primary establishments and other assembly uses to expand their occupant load
capacity, to align with Provincial building and fire code requirements.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06078)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Special Council meeting adjourned at 4:38 pm.
* * * * *