COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 9, 2020
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 9, 2020, at
9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order
No. M139.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 2
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – May 26, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of May 26, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Public Hearing – May 26, 2020
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of May 26, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Special Council (Temporary Patio Program) – May 27, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Temporary Patio program) meeting of
May 27, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Public Hearing – May 28, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing meeting of May 28, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 3
5. Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee – June 3, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Minutes of the Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee meeting of
June 3, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Communication 2 and Reports 1 to 3, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
PRESENTATIONS
1. Places for People: Downtown Public Space Strategy
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, and Lon LaClaire,
General Manager, Engineering Services, along with staff from Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability and Engineering Services, provided an overview of the Downtown Public Space
Strategy which sets out a vision for a public realm that puts people first and supports a vibrant,
equitable, safe, healthy and well-connected Downtown, and responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 11:05 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council have a second round of questions to staff.
LOST (Vote No. 06035)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
* * * * *
Council heard from three speakers in support of the recommendations.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 4
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council approve the Downtown Public Space Strategy, as outlined in
Appendix A of the Report dated June 1, 2020, entitled “Places for People:
Downtown Public Space Strategy”.
B. THAT staff be directed to apply the principles of the Downtown Public Space
Strategy to public life and local business COVID-19 pandemic recovery
initiatives, and related policy and planning initiatives.
C. THAT staff be directed to adapt the Strategic Directions to input into City-wide
policy, including the Vancouver Plan and community and area plans.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the following be added as D:
THAT staff be directed to report back with ideas they can implement that make
public spaces welcoming for people who are homeless throughout the city.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06036)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung abstained from the vote)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:55 am and reconvened at 2:17 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT Council direct staff to return to Council with an engagement and
consultation plan prior to making recommendations for any permanent road
closures that may be considered after temporary road closures in the “Places for
People: Downtown Public Space Strategy”.
LOST (Vote No. 06045)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 5
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT Council direct staff to amend the Downtown Public Space Strategy, as
outlined in the Report dated June 1, 2020, entitled “Places for People: Downtown
Public Space Strategy”, to include a specific action to incorporate historical
markers and signage to communicate the diverse and collective ethno-cultural
history and heritage of the city.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06046)
The amendments having either carried or lost, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06047) with Councillor Hardwick abstaining from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve the Downtown Public Space Strategy, as outlined in
Appendix A of the Report dated June 1, 2020, entitled “Places for People:
Downtown Public Space Strategy”.
B. THAT staff be directed to apply the principles of the Downtown Public Space
Strategy to public life and local business COVID-19 pandemic recovery
initiatives, and related policy and planning initiatives.
C. THAT staff be directed to adapt the Strategic Directions to input into City-wide
policy, including the Vancouver Plan and community and area plans.
D. THAT staff be directed to report back with ideas they can implement that make
public spaces welcoming for people who are homeless throughout the city.
E. THAT Council direct staff to amend the Downtown Public Space Strategy, as
outlined in the Report dated June 1, 2020, entitled “Places for People: Downtown
Public Space Strategy”, to include a specific action to incorporate historical
markers and signage to communicate the diverse and collective ethno-cultural
history and heritage of the city.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. REZONING: 2776 Semlin Drive and 2025 East 12th Avenue
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
Council also had before it a Memorandum dated May 14, 2020, from Gil Kelley, General
Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, that informed Council of the deletion of the
recommendation pertaining to a Sign By-law amendment.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 6
It noted the Referral Report dated February 25, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2776 Semlin
Drive and 2025 East 12th Avenue” contained the following recommendation which is not
required for this application:
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Sign By-law be amended
generally as set out in Appendix C;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Sign By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1 By-law.
After referral, staff determined that the Sign By-law already provides for signs related to Church
uses and that a Sign By-law amendment would not be needed to include the proposed CD-1
By-law.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT the application by Colliers International, on behalf of the British Columbia
Conference Property Development Council of the United Church of Canada,
S6928, to rezone 2776 Semlin Drive and 2025 East 12th Avenue [PID: 007-009-
691, Lot C of Lot D Block 163 District Lot 264A PLAN 19457] from RS-1 (One-
family Dwelling) to a new CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to
increase the floor space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.55 and building height from
10.7 m (35.1 ft.) to 19.8 m (65 ft.) for a mixed-use building with 104 social
housing units and a church, generally as presented in Appendix A of the Referral
Report dated February 25, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2776 Semlin Drive
and 2025 East 12th Avenue”, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Shape Architecture and received on
August 2, 2019, provided the Director of Planning may allow minor alterations to
this form of development when approving the detailed scheme of development;
FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of Approval
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
B. THAT, if Council approves in principle the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report, dated
February 25, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2776 Semlin Drive and 2025 East
12th Avenue”, the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the
zoning by-law, subject to such terms and conditions as may be required at the
discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the General Manager of
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Director of Legal Services
be instructed to bring forward for Council approval amendments to Subdivision
By-law generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated February
25, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 2776 Semlin Drive and 2025 East 12th
Avenue”.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 7
D. THAT A through C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOULSY (Vote No. 06048)
COMMUNICATIONS
1. Changes to 2020 Council Meetings Schedule
Sadhu Johnston, City Manager, along with Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff,
responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Public Hearings be held on the following new dates and times:
• July 7, 2020, starting at 6 pm;
• July 9, 2020, starting at 6 pm; and
• July 28, 2020, starting at 6 pm.
FURTHER THAT a Council / Public Hearing Reserve be added on July 16, 2020,
starting at 3 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOULSY (Vote No. 06042)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
2. Change to Roster of Deputy Mayor
THAT Councillor Hardwick be named in place of Councillor De Genova as the Deputy
Mayor for the month of August 2020.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06037)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 8
REPORTS
1. Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board – Annual Report 2019
April 23, 2020
A. THAT Council approve the 2019 Annual Report of Vancouver Heritage
Foundation as outlined in Appendix A of the Report dated April 23, 2020, entitled
“Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board – Annual Report 2019”.
B. THAT Council approve payment of a grant to Vancouver Heritage Foundation in
the amount of $135,304 to be used as operating funds for the first year of the
three-year operating agreement (2020-2022), source of funding the 2020
Operating Budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06038)
2. Cultural Amenity Density Bonus - 1616 West 7th Avenue & Artist Studio Award
Lease Extension
April 27, 2020
A. THAT Council approve the January 20, 2020, Development Permit Board
decision to allow for increased density on site 1616 West 7th Avenue, in
exchange for the inclusion of a new City-owned cultural amenity (“Cultural
Amenity”) pursuant to the C-3A District Schedule, Section 5.2 (e).
B. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute one-year extension agreements to each of the seven lease or sublease
agreements (collectively, the “Leases”) under the Artist Studio Award program, to
the tenants (collectively, the “Tenants”, and each a “Tenant”) of the City-owned
or City-leased artist studios (collectively, the “Premises”, and each a “Studio”) as
detailed in Appendix A of the Report dated April 27, 2020, entitled “Cultural
Amenity Density Bonus - 1616 West 7th Avenue & Artist Studio Award Lease
Extension”, with each such extension agreement in a form satisfactory to the
Director of Legal Services in consultation with the Director of Real Estate
Services and the Managing Director of Cultural Services.
C. THAT Council approve the re-tenanting of any Studio that becomes vacant for an
extended period during the occupancy term to another eligible artist as approved
by the Managing Director of Cultural Services, on the same terms and conditions
as approved for the original artist recommended as the Tenant of such Studio, as
set out in Appendix A of the Report dated April 27, 2020, entitled “Cultural
Amenity Density Bonus - 1616 West 7th Avenue & Artist Studio Award Lease
Extension”.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 9
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of the above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND B
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 06039)
3. Closure and Sale of a Portion of Lane Adjacent to 1976 and 1990 Stainsbury
Avenue
April 29, 2020
A. That Council close, stop-up and convey to the owner of 1956 to 1990 Stainsbury
Avenue (“The Abutting Lands”, as described in Appendix A of the Report dated
April 29, 2020, entitled “Closure and Sale of a Portion of Lane Adjacent to 1976
and 1990 Stainsbury Avenue”) that approximately 184 square metre portion of
abutting lane (the “Lane Portion”), the same as generally shown hatched on the
plan attached as Appendix B of the above-note report, subject to the terms and
conditions noted in Appendix A of the same report.
B. THAT the sale proceeds of $758,521.00 be credited to the Property Endowment
Fund (PEF).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 06040)
4. Report Back - Fireworks Ban
February 18, 2020
Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
by Council a By-law to amend the Fire By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Report dated February 18, 2020, entitled, “Report Back –
Fireworks Ban”, to come into force and take effect upon enactment, except that
sections 2 and 4 are to come into force and take effect on November 1, 2020.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for enactment by Council a by-law to amend the Ticket
Offences By-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Report dated
February 18, 2020, entitled “Report Back – Fireworks Ban”, to come into force
and take effect upon enactment, except that section 3 is to come into force and
take effect on November 1, 2020.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 10
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be added as C:
THAT Council direct staff to prepare recommendations to enact a by-law or
amendment(s) to a current by-law to ban the use and sale of bear bangers in the
City of Vancouver and return to Council for enactment as soon as possible.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the phrase “restrict or license the” be added after the phrase “current by-law to
ban the use and”, and read as follows:
THAT Council direct staff to prepare recommendations to enact a by-law or
amendment(s) to a current by-law to ban the use and restrict or license the sale
of bear bangers in the City of Vancouver and return to Council for enactment as
soon as possible.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06050)
(Councillor Bligh opposed)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 06051) with Councillor Bligh opposed.
Prior to the vote, Council agreed to separate the components of the motion. The amendment
having carried, the motion as amended was put with A and B CARRIED (Vote No. 06052) with
Councillors De Genova and Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed and C CARRIED (Vote No.
06053) with Councillor Bligh opposed.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
by Council a By-law to amend the Fire By-law, generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Report dated February 18, 2020, entitled, “Report Back –
Fireworks Ban”, to come into force and take effect upon enactment, except that
sections 2 and 4 are to come into force and take effect on November 1, 2020.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to bring forward for enactment by Council a by-law to amend the Ticket
Offences By-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Report dated
February 18, 2020, entitled “Report Back – Fireworks Ban”, to come into force
and take effect upon enactment, except that section 3 is to come into force and
take effect on November 1, 2020.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 11
C. THAT Council direct staff to prepare recommendations to enact a by-law or
amendment(s) to a current by-law to ban the use and restrict or license the sale
of bear bangers in the City of Vancouver and return to Council for enactment as
soon as possible.
REFERRAL REPORTS
1. CD-1 Amendment: 2538 Birch Street (formerly 1296 West Broadway)
March 17, 2020
Sadhu Johnston, City Manager, along with Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff,
responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT the application by IBI Group on behalf of 1061511 B.C. Ltd (Jameson
Development Corporation), the registered owner, to amend CD-1 (708)
(Comprehensive Development) District, By-Law No. 12179 for 2538 Birch Street
[Lot 1, Block 353, District Lot 526, Group 1 New Westminster District Plan EPP
81033; PID 030-417-261] to increase the permitted floor space ratio (FSR) from
7.07 to 10.55 and the maximum building height from 52.14 m (171.1 ft.) (99.24 m
geodetic) to 86.19 m (282.78 ft.) to permit a taller mixed-use building (27 storey
with a mezzanine) with approximately 258 secured rental units on the upper
floors with 22 per cent of the residential floor area being secured as moderate
income units under the Moderate Income Rental Housing Pilot Program, be
referred to a Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by IBI Group, received May 17, 2019;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law amendments, generally as presented in Appendix A of
the Referral Report dated March 17, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Amendment:
2538 Birch Street (formerly 1296 West Broadway)”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the amendment in principle, including
approval in principle of the form of development, subject to the Conditions
of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law amendments generally in accordance with Appendix A of
the above-noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, if after Public Hearing, Council approves in principle the By-law
amendments and the Housing Agreement described in Part 2 of Appendix B of
the Referral Report dated March 17, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Amendment: 2538
Birch Street (formerly 1296 West Broadway)”, the Director of Legal Services be
instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-law for enactment
prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms and conditions as

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 12
may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal Services and the
General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a bylaw rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
carried
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the motion be struck and the following be inserted:
THAT Council direct staff to hold the referral to Public Hearing of the Referral
Report dated March 17, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Amendment: 2538 Birch Street
(formerly 1296 West Broadway);
FURTHER THAT the above-noted report be considered at a future Council
meeting.
LOST (Vote No. 06054)
(Councillors Boyle, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor Swanson abstained from the vote)
Councillor De Genova rose on a point of order under Section 6.1 (b) of the Procedure By-law
noting comments made about staff being disingenuous bringing this application forward. The
Mayor reminded everyone that the current public process has been interrupted due to working
through a pandemic and uncertain times and that Council has a legal obligation to continue its
work and should try not to judge peoples motivation and recognize the current circumstances.
During debate on the above-noted amendment, Mayor Stewart relinquished the Chair to
Councillor De Genova, in order to participate in debate and resumed as Chair when completed.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 13
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council reconsider the vote on the amendment.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06055)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the motion be struck and the following be inserted:
THAT Council direct staff to hold the referral to Public Hearing of the Referral
Report dated March 17, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Amendment: 2538 Birch Street
(formerly 1296 West Broadway);
FURTHER THAT the above-noted report be considered at a future Council
meeting.
LOST (Vote No. 06057)
(Councillors Boyle, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor Swanson abstained from the vote)
The amendment having lost, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 06058) with
Councillor Hardwick opposed and Councillors Bligh, Carr and Swanson abstaining from the
vote.
BY-LAWS
Councillor De Genova advised to have reviewed the proceedings of the meeting related to
by-laws 2 and 4 and would be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Fry, advised to have reviewed the proceedings of the meeting related to by-laws
2 to 4 and would be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Bligh, advised to have reviewed the proceedings of the meeting related to by-law 4
and would be voting on the enactment.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 6 and 8 to 10 inclusive,
and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend License by-law No. 4450 Regarding Waiver of Fees for Amendments
for Expanded Service Area (By-law No. 12704)

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 14
2. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8A (6908-6968 Ash Street and 575 West 54th Avenue) (By-law No. 12705)
3. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8A (6808-6888 Ash Street) (By-law No. 12706)
4. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8A (768-780 West 27th Avenue) (By-law No. 12707)
5. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area from
RS-1 to RM-8A (628-682 West 28th Avenue and 4435 Ash Street) (By-law No. 12708)
(Councillor Hardwick ineligible for the vote)
6. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 District Parking
requirements (By-law No. 12709)
7. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (675 West
Hastings Street – Royal Bank Building) - WITHDRAWN
8. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3435 East Hastings Street
(By-law No. 12710)
9. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 686-688 East 22nd Avenue, 3811-3891
Fraser Street, and 679 East 23rd Avenue (By-law No. 12711)
10. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property (6103 West
Boulevard – Stanley Ernest Peters (S.E.P.) Block) (By-law No. 12712)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 4:56 pm and reconvened at 6:03 pm.
* * * * *
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Resolution - Closure and Sale of a Portion of Lane Adjacent to 1976 and 1990
Stainsbury Avenue
Sadhu Johnston, City Manager, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is the owner of all the streets and lanes lying within the
limits of the City of Vancouver;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 15
2. There is a proposal to redevelop:
a) Parcel Identifier: 009-373-292, Lot A Block D West part of District Lot 743
Plan 10571;
b) Parcel Identifier: 009-373-357, Lot B Block D West part of District Lot 743
Plan 10571;
c) Parcel Identifier: 009-373-489, Lot C Block D West part of District Lot 743
Plan 10571; and
d) Parcel Identifier: 002-718-642, Lot D Block D West part of District Lot 743
Plan 10571;
collectively, the “Rezoning Lots”;
3. The proposal requires the closure of a 184.5 square metre portion of the lane
immediately west of Victoria Drive south from Stainsbury Avenue, dedicated by
the deposit of Plan 10571 in 1960;
4. The said portion of lane to be closed is no longer required for municipal
purposes;
5. The said portion of lane to be closed will be conveyed to the abutting owner and
consolidated with the Rezoning Lots to form a single parcel.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT all that portion of lane, adjacent to the said
Rezoning Lots, the same as shown in heavy outline on the Reference Plan prepared by,
Louis Ngan, B.C.L.S., completed on the 22nd day of April, 2020, and numbered Plan
EPP101898, a copy of which is attached hereto, be closed, stopped-up and conveyed to
the owner of the said Rezoning Lots; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the said portion of lane to be closed is to be
consolidated with the said Rezoning Lots to form a single parcel, as shown within the
heavy bold outline on the Reference Plan prepared by Louis Ngan, B.C.L.S., completed
on the 22nd day of April, 2020, and numbered Plan EPP101899, a copy of which is
attached hereto, to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services.
(Closure and Sale of a Portion of Lane Adjacent to 1976 and 1990 Stainsbury Avenue;
Lots C and D, both of Block D, West Part of District Lot 743 Plan 10571 (RTS 13864), as
per Council authority date, June 9, 2020)
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 16
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Komagata Maru Apology and Remembrance Day Proclamation
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. On May 23, 1914, three hundred and seventy-six British Subjects from India of
Sikh, Muslim and Hindu origin arrived in Vancouver Harbour aboard the
Komagata Maru, seeking to enter Canada;
2. On July 23, 1914, the Komagata Maru was forced to leave as a result of a
discriminatory act by the Government of Canada, without allowing the
passengers to disembark;
3. On May 23, 2008, at the request of the Descendants of the Komagata Maru
Society, the BC Government apologized for the events of May 23, 1914, stating
that “The House deeply regrets that the passengers, who sought refuge in our
country and our province, were turned away without benefit of the fair and
impartial treatment befitting a society where people of all cultures are welcomed
and accepted”;
4. On May 18, 2016, at the request of the Descendants of the Komagata Maru
Society, the Canadian Government apologized for the events of May 23, 1914,
stating that it was sorry for its indifference and discriminatory laws, and that it
was committed “to positive action – to learning from the mistakes of the past, and
to making sure that we never repeat them”;
5. The City of Vancouver is committed to protecting British Columbians from hate,
racism, and discrimination through legislation, education, and example;
6. The City of Vancouver is home to many diverse cultures where individuals can
practice their beliefs and customs while respecting and learning from other
traditions;
7. The City of Vancouver promotes multiculturalism and the full and free
participation of all individuals in society; and
8. Vancouver Mayor Truman Baxter organized an anti-Asian rally, and the first
speaker was the prominent politician H.H. Stevens. “I have no ill-feeling against
people coming from Asia personally,” he told the crowd, “but I reaffirm that the
national life of Canada will not permit any large degree of immigration from
Asia…I intend to stand up absolutely on all occasions on this one great
principle—of a white country and a white British Columbia.”

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 17
(http://www.vancouverhistory.ca/archives_komagatamaru.htm
[vancouverhistory.ca])
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:
A. THAT Council formally apologizes for the previous Council’s injustices and their
cruel effects on individuals and families impacted by the Komagata Maru
incident.
B. THAT The City of Vancouver declare, by proclamation, that May 23rd shall be
known as “Komagata Maru Remembrance Day” in Vancouver.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the motion entitled “Komagata Maru Apology and Remembrance Day
Proclamation” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
meeting on Wednesday, June 10, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Establishing Fairness for Standing Committee Chairs and Agendas -
WITHDRAWN
3. Standing Up to the Rise in Anti-Asian Racism, All Racism & Hate Crimes
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The COVID-19 pandemic has inflicted significant negative impacts on the
residents of Vancouver including on their economic, physical and mental well-
being;
2. Critically, COVID-19 is giving rise to a number of negative social consequences,
including an alarming and deeply disturbing increase in Anti-Asian Racism and
Hate Crimes that are being reported across the City;
3. Victims of these incidents are often some of the most vulnerable people including
seniors and women;
4. People of Asian descent are citing fears of going out for dread of being attacked,
and Asians of other cultural backgrounds are citing fear of being mistaken for

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 18
being Chinese. Indeed, a young person of Indigenous heritage was mistaken for
being Chinese and attacked while walking a dog;
5. Vancouver Police Department has stated they have opened 29 investigative files
for Anti-Asian crime compared to four during the same time last year, equating to
a 640% increase. Given that hate crimes can often go unreported, it is likely this
underrepresents the prevalence of racist incidents in the City;
6. In addition to assaults, hateful graffiti has been perpetrated on landmarks that
hold great cultural significance including the majestic lions more than once and
on the Millennium Gate in Chinatown;
7. The death of George Floyd, a 46-year-old black man in Minneapolis, has
triggered multiple protests across the United States that are now being staged in
Canada also, including one on May 31 in Vancouver, that was thankfully peaceful
and did not result in any harms to people;
8. BC Provincial Attorney General David Eby has stated a commitment to the
Crown Prosecutors Independent Prosecution Branch ensure they have the right
resources to assist police in prosecuting these crimes. Eby said the public “need
to have confidence incidents will be taken seriously and prosecuted”;
9. Racism, xenophobia and hate speech have no place in Vancouver. While the
VPD has implemented several measures to combat the disturbing increase, such
as foot patrols and placement of the public safety trailer and cameras, there is a
growing call and need for all levels of government to condemn these incidents
and help work to combat them. There is a need for a concerted focus on
education towards combatting incidents, as well as to educate bystanders how
they can help calling out and reporting of crimes. A focus on supports available to
the targets of racism and hate crimes is also critical;
10. Left unchecked, hate is insidious. Currently, anti-Asian racism is most publicly
reported, but racism impacts other racialized communities and it spreads like a
virus and it impacts us all;
11. Race and ethnic identity are a social determinant of health. The impacts of
discrimination and hate activity can include physical and emotional trauma and
ongoing mental health concerns;
12. Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver continue to embrace collective
human rights and the values of an inclusive community and are committed to
remaining vigilant in upholding the values of equity, justice, and well-being for all
to ensure that we learn from the past, and that we remain proactive in preventing
discrimination;
13. Much work has been done towards ensuring an inclusive and welcoming City
and country and more needs to be done at this critical moment in time. Hate can
only be overcome by education, increased awareness-raising efforts, strong
political condemnation, and enforcement of relevant laws;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 19
14. In recent decades, all orders of government in Canada (federal, provincial, and
municipal) have taken steps to formally apologize for past discrimination against
various groups and have embarked upon a number of processes and actions in
support of reconciliation. The following are illustrative examples:
a. In 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper on behalf of the Government of
Canada, issued a formal apology to Chinese Canadians for the race-based
Chinese Head Tax and for the exclusion of Chinese immigrants to Canada
from 1923 to 1947;
b. In 2008, Prime Minister Harper apologized to former students of Indian
residential schools for Canada’s role in the system, which separated over
150,000 Aboriginal children from their families and communities;
c. On May 15, 2014, Premier Christy Clark issued a formal apology to Chinese
Canadians on behalf the entire B.C. Legislature for the historical wrongs
imposed on them by past provincial governments;
d. On May 18, 2016, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau formally apologized in the
House of Commons for the Komagata Maru incident in 1914 in which -3-
hundreds of Sikh, Muslim, and Hindu passengers were denied entry to
Canada and forced to return to an uncertain and ultimately violent fate in
India;
e. On November 1, 2017, Vancouver City Council received a report
summarizing historical discrimination against Chinese people in Vancouver
and unanimously supported the recommendations contained therein. The
report noted that “The key learning from the initiative is to ensure that this
history will not repeat and we remain vigilant in upholding the values of
equity, justice and well-being for all”;
f. In April 2018, the City of Vancouver formally apologized to Chinese
Canadians for historical discriminatory legislation, regulations, and policies
that discriminated against residents of Chinese descent, and noted that
“Through the process of reconciliation we consolidate and embrace our firm
beliefs and values of being an inclusive community; one that embraces our
collective human rights and prepares us to be proactive in preventing
discrimination”;
g. In 2019, the Government of Canada announced its 2019-2022 Anti-Racism
Strategy which includes a diverse range of measures from education to crime
prevention including supporting funding;
h. In early 2020, Council unanimously supported motions to officially mark the
Day of Remembrance and Action on Islamophia and International Holocaust
Remembrance Day;
i. In late May, 2020, the BC Lieutenant Governor launched the
#DifferentTogether campaign asking leaders in government, business and
social services to join in pledging to uphold the Canadian values of diversity
and inclusion and to oppose racism and hate in all its forms; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 20
j. On May 28, 2020 the City of Vancouver declared May 28, 2020 to be a Day
of Action Against Racism with a multilingual proclamation.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the Mayor call upon the Federal Government on behalf of Council to
advance work on Canada’s Anti-Racism Strategy initiated in 2019, noting the
increasing incidents of racism and hate crime in Vancouver and across the
country, and write to the Prime Minister and Minister of Canadian Heritage &
Multiculturalism stressing the importance of prioritizing this work, particularly in
the areas of education and bystander awareness as well as supporting victims,
given the unique challenges of COVID-19.
B. THAT the Mayor thank the Provincial Government on behalf of Council for the
early work and recent initial funding announcement towards combatting racism,
and call upon the Province to further advance and expand work on Anti-Racism
in order to ensure safe and welcoming communities, noting the increasing
incidents of racism and hate crime in Vancouver and other communities across
the Province.
FURTHER THAT the Mayor on behalf of Council, write to the Premier and
Minister of Tourism, Arts and Culture stressing the importance of prioritizing this
work, particularly in the areas of education and bystander awareness and victim
support, given the unique challenges of COVID-19.
C. THAT Council direct staff to deliver a public awareness campaign that condemns
all racism and hate crimes in our city, shares info on available resources for
victims, and provides clear information for bystanders who observe racially
motivated incidents.
D. THAT staff report back on the development of a broad Anti-Racism/Anti-Hate
Strategy for the City of Vancouver.
E. THAT Council direct staff to engage with the Racial and Ethno-Cultural Equity
Advisory Committee for their information and input into the issue of rising Anti-
Asian hate crimes and racially motivated crimes.
F. THAT staff engage with the Racial and Ethno-Cultural Equity Advisory
Committee as well as the 2SLGBTQ+ Advisory Committee with respect to a
broad Anti-Racism/Anti-Hate Strategy for the City of Vancouver.
G. THAT Council direct staff to identify funding opportunities from senior levels of
government that may be available to support this work.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Standing Up to the Rise in Anti-Asian Racism,
All Racism & Hate Crimes”, to staff, to evaluate how it could be incorporated into existing
and ongoing work, including the Equity Framework, Anti-Black Racism Plan, Indigenous

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 21
Healing and Wellness Strategy, Chinatown Transformation Team, South Asian Apology,
and Access without Fear Response, and to report back to Council at a later time.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE REFERRAL MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the phrase “only after hearing from speakers at the June 10th Standing
Committee meeting and then” be added after the first comma;
FURTHER THAT the word “to” before the word “evaluate” be struck and the motion read
as follows:
THAT Council consider referral of the motion entitled “Standing Up to the Rise in
Anti-Asian Racism, All Racism & Hate Crimes”, to staff, only after hearing from
speakers at the June 10th Standing Committee meeting and then evaluate how it
could be incorporated into existing and ongoing work, including the Equity
Framework, Anti-Black Racism Plan, Indigenous Healing and Wellness Strategy,
Chinatown Transformation Team, South Asian Apology, and Access without Fear
Response, and to report back to Council at a later time.
LOST (Vote No. 06059)
(Councillor Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
AMENDMENT TO THE REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the phrase “immediately consult with appropriate advisory committees and” after
“refer this motion to staff, to” and read as follows:
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Standing Up to the Rise in Anti-Asian
Racism, All Racism & Hate Crimes”, to staff, to immediately consult with
appropriate advisory committees and evaluate how it could be incorporated into
existing and ongoing work, including the Equity Framework, Anti-Black Racism
Plan, Indigenous Healing and Wellness Strategy, Chinatown Transformation
Team, South Asian Apology, and Access without Fear Response, and to report
back to Council at a later time.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06044)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
The Mayor clarified sections 9.2 and 9.3 of the Procedure By-law regarding “Adding member’s
motions to the agenda” and “Motion must be the same language as on agenda."
The amendment to the referral having carried, the referral as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 06061) with Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 22
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Standing Up to the Rise in Anti-Asian Racism,
All Racism & Hate Crimes”, to staff, to immediately consult with appropriate advisory
committees and evaluate how it could be incorporated into existing and ongoing work,
including the Equity Framework, Anti-Black Racism Plan, Indigenous Healing and
Wellness Strategy, Chinatown Transformation Team, South Asian Apology, and Access
without Fear Response, and to report back to Council at a later time.
4. Amending the City’s Municipal Election Year Operating Budget Policies and
Principles
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is required by the Vancouver Charter, Library Act, and
Police Act to produce a consolidated operating budget incorporating the separate
internal budgets of the Board of Parks and Recreation, the Vancouver Public
Library Board, and the Vancouver Police Board, and is required by Public Sector
Accounting Standards to include the Vancouver Downtown Parking Corporation
(aka EasyPark) in its consolidated financial statements;
2. The City of Vancouver has a policy (Policy Number ADMIN-004: “Budgets –
Operating”) which outlines the requirements for Operating Revenues and
Expenditures, including authorization requirements. The policy applies to all
Operating Revenues and Operating Expenditures undertaken by the City of
Vancouver and is intended to supplement and provide operational clarity and
promote best practices within the statutory requirements relating to budgeting as
set out in the Vancouver Charter, Police Act, and Library Act;
3. Section 219 (1) of the Vancouver Charter (“Director of Finance to report on
revenue and expenditure”) states: “As soon as practicable in each year and in
any event by April 30, the Director of Finance must prepare and submit to the
Council a report setting out the Director of Finance’s estimates in detail of the
anticipated revenues and expenditures of the city for that year.”;
4. With respect to the requirement for the City to set an Operating Budget, Policy
Number ADMIN-004 (“Budgets – Operating”) states, under section 2 (1.1), that
“The Director of Finance is to present an Annual Operating Budget for the
upcoming year as a report to Council in December of each year.” The policy
further states that “On an exception basis, as determined by the Director of
Finance, such as may occur in the year of a municipal election, an internal
working budget will be developed by December of that year, and a budget will be

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 23
adopted by Council no later than April 30th of the following year as required by
section 219 of the Vancouver Charter.”;
5. Additionally, Policy Number ADMIN-004 (“Budgets – Operating”) states, under
section 2 (1.2), that “In any year in which the budget is not approved by Council
before December 31st, Council may authorize expenditures as are necessary to
carry on the business of the City until the budget is adopted, if the following
conditions are met:
(a) the amounts for that Budget Line Item does not exceed the amount for
the Budget Line Item in the prior Annual Operating Budget, and
(b) the expenditure is approved by at least two-thirds of City Council.”;
6. There are clearly no statutory requirements relating to budgets, as set out in the
Vancouver Charter, Police Act, or Library Act, that would necessitate the
approval of a City of Vancouver Operating Budget in December of any year,
including a municipal election year. An “internal working budget” can be
developed by December of a municipal election year – or “In any year in which
the budget is not approved by Council before December 31st” – and a final
budget adopted by Council no later than April 30th of the following year, with
Council empowered to authorize expenditures necessary to carry on the
business of the City until the budget is adopted if the amounts for that Budget
Line Item does not exceed the amount for the Budget Line Item in the prior year’s
Operating Budget and the expenditure is approved by at least two-thirds of City
Council;
7. As a point of relevant comparison to the City of Vancouver’s budget policy, the
section of the City of Toronto Act (CoTA) 2006 that pertains to Toronto’s “Yearly
Budget” (i.e., section 228) includes an exception clause, namely subsection 228
(2), which states that “Despite subsection (1), a budget for a year immediately
following a year in which a regular election is held may only be adopted in the
year to which the budget applies.”1
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Policy Number ADMIN-004 (“Budgets –
Operating”) Section 2 (POLICY STATEMENTS) be amended to better reflect the budget
circumstances of a municipal election year and an incoming Council by striking
subsection 1.1. under the heading “Requirement to set a budget” and replacing it with
the following amended wording:
1 Subsection 228 (1) of the City of Toronto Act (CoTA) 2006 states that “For each year, the City shall in
the year or the immediately preceding year prepare and adopt a budget including estimates of all sums
required during the year for the purposes of the City, including….”

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 24
• Section 1.1. “The Director of Finance is to present an Annual Operating Budget
for the upcoming year as a report to Council in December of each year. In the
year of a municipal election, an internal working budget will be developed by
December of that year, and a budget will be adopted by Council in the year that it
applies and no later than April 30th of that year as required by section 219 of the
Vancouver Charter.”;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to prepare a By-law for the consideration of Council
to legally enshrine the intent of this motion, namely, that in the year of a municipal
election an internal working budget is to be developed by December of that year and a
final budget is to be adopted by Council in the year that it applies and no later than April
30th of that year, consistent with the requirements of section 219 of the Vancouver
Charter;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct the Mayor to write to the Province to seek an
amendment to the Vancouver Charter to enshrine a requirement on the part of the City
to develop an internal working budget in the year of a municipal election (by December
of that year) and a requirement for a final budget to be adopted by Council in the year to
which the budget applies and no later than April 30th of that year.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the motion entitled “Amending the City’s Municipal Election Year Operating
Budget Policies and Principles” be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance
and Services meeting on Wednesday, June 10, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Developing an #AllOnBoard and #RaiseARider Pilot
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 23, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
2. A Call for Race-Based and Socio-Demographic Data in B.C
Councillor Boyle submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 23, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 25
3. Community Crisis Management Through Understanding and De-escalation
Councillor Fry submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 23, 2020, as a Council Member’s
Motion.
4. A Paradigm Shift in How We Partner With Local Businesses
Councillor Wiebe submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 23, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
5. Exploring a Pilot for Beverages in Public Spaces in Vancouver
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 23, 2020, as a
Council Member’s Motion.
6. Corner Stores in 21st Century Vancouver: Achieving Food-Friendly
Neighbourhoods & Complete Communities
Councillor Kirby-Yung submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 23, 2020, as a
Council Member’s Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Reconsideration of Council Decision of Designating Public Space for Responsible
Consumption of Alcohol
Councillor Dominato submitted a motion on the above-noted matter as New Business.
Subsequently, Councillor De Genova called notice on the motion and the motion may be placed
on the Council meeting agenda of June 23, 2020, as a Council Member’s Motion.
2. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Bligh be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on Wednesday, June 24, 2020, from 1 pm to 4 pm;
FURTHER THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a Leave of Absence for civic
business from meetings on Wednesday, June 10, 2020, from 3:30 pm to 5 pm;

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 26
AND FURTHER THAT Councillor Fry be granted a Leave of Absence for civic business
from meetings on Tuesday, June 9, 2020, from 9:30 am to 10 am.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06041)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Temporary Expedited Patio Permit Program
Councillor De Genova requested an update on the Temporary Expedited Patio Permits Program
and the application by Como Taperia. The City Manager agreed to provide more information by
email when available.
2. Retail License Fee on Cannabis Shops
Councillor Bligh requested information regarding the retail license fee for recreational cannabis
shops noting the cost discrepancy compared to other municipalities across the country. The City
Manager advised staff have the request and are working on the request, noting staff are
currently working on several Council initiated priorities.
3. Automation of Pedestrian Crosswalks and Signals
Councillor Kirby-Yung requested information to automate pedestrian crosswalks during the time
of COVID-19. The City Manager provided a brief response indicating this has been forwarded to
Engineering and an email update will be provided once more information is available.
4. Well- Being Framework
Councillor Wiebe requested more information on the process of the possibility of a well-being
framework being used in the next budget process. The City Manager provided a brief update
reiterating budget updates provided by the Chief Financial Officer. It was noted that the 2020
budget is being reworked and work on a 2021 budget will soon be underway with a revamped
budgeting process in light of an unprecedented drop in revenues, and the city does not have the
ability at this time to take on additional work.
5. Reconciliation Framework Developed by the Park Board
Councillor Wiebe enquired about the ability to use the reconciliation roadmap developed by the
Park Board to create decolonization work plans for our departments. The City Manager provided
a brief update and indicated the Indigenous Relations Manager in the City Manager’s office has
been coordinating with the Park Board and agreed to email more information when available.

Council Meeting
Minutes, June 9, 2020 27
6. Proclamation for International Day of Yoga
Councillor Wiebe requested more information on moving forward with a proclamation to
recognize June 21 as International Day of Yoga. The City Manager advised that the Mayor’s
office is responsible for proclamations.
7. Lifeguards
Councillor Wiebe requested more information regarding the legal and liability element of not
having first responders at beaches until July 1st, noting increased beach usage. The City
Manager indicated the Park Board is looking into lifeguarding and awaiting more direction and
expectations from the Canadian Lifeguard Association and also reiterated any legal or liability
issues are to be discussed in camera.
8. In Person Council Meetings
Councillor Dominato requested more information on when Council will move back to
face-to-face Council meetings in the Council Chamber. The City Manager provided a brief
update indicating there were several safety factors to take into consideration before moving
forward with in person Council meetings.
9. Update on Motion Regarding Advocacy for Vulnerable Vancouver Residents.
Councillor Swanson requested an update on a motion passed in April entitled, “Ensuring All
Vancouver Residents Can Comply With Public Health Guidance”, which directed the Mayor to
continue advocating on behalf of vulnerable Vancouver residents and providing the same
opportunity for self-isolation as people with homes. The Mayor provided a brief update that
included ongoing discussions at all levels of government were still taking place.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 8:16 pm.
* * * * *