REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MAY 27 AND JUNE 2, 2020
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, May 27, 2020, at 9:32 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
Subsequently, the meeting reconvened on Tuesday, June 2, 2020, at 3:02 pm. This Council
meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of
Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program
Act, Ministerial Order No. M139.
PRESENT: Councillor Adriane Carr, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart (Leave of Absence –
Personal Reasons – June 2, 2020)*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick*
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 2
1. Development and Permit Process Improvements
May 12, 2020
a. Presentation – Development and Permit Process Improvements
Jessie Adcock, General Manager, Development, Buildings and Licensing, along with Gil Kelley,
General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, Lon LaClaire, General Manager,
Engineering, and Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager, introduced the item and responded to
questions.
b. Referral Report – Regulation Redesign – Amendments to Zoning & Development
and Parking By-laws
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make an application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law,
generally as presented in Appendix A of the Report dated May 12, 2020, entitled
“Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning & Development and Parking
By-laws” to:
(i) add definition to section 2 for unnecessary hardship;
(ii) reorganize and update sections 3, 4, and 5 to:
a. consolidate authorities, administration of development permits and
regulations regarding relaxations and use of discretion into discrete
sections;
b. clarify conditions for Development Permit Board review of
development permit applications;
c. allow both the Director of Planning and Development Permit Board
authority to relax the by-law for unnecessary hardship, as defined in
section 2;
(iii) subject to approval of A(ii) (a) update references to sections 3, 4, and 5
throughout the by-law;
(iv) correct terminology related to the application of relaxations and discretion
throughout the by-law and move regulations to the appropriate section of
the district schedules;
(v) update section 10.6 Character House to consolidate regulations that
enable the variation of regulations for the retention of a character house;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 3
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Zoning and Development By-law,
generally as presented in Appendix B of the Report dated May 12, 2020, entitled
“Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning & Development and Parking
By-laws” to:
(i) add definitions to section 2 for awning, balcony, enclosed balcony, deck,
roof deck, canopy, covered entry, porch and verandah, and patio;
(ii) subject to the approval of B(i), update language throughout the by-law to
reflect the new defined terms and to improve consistency of terminology;
(iii) in section 10, increase the permitted projection of balconies on multiple
dwellings into a required yard from 1.2 m to 1.8 m to provide more
flexibility;
(iv) update and improve the consistency of regulations for balconies and
decks by:
a. applying the floor area exclusion for balconies and decks to non-
residential uses, as well as residential uses;
b. introducing a floor area exclusion for balconies and decks of 8% in the
RA-1 district and for dwellings other than multiple dwellings in the RM-
4 and RM-4 districts and an exclusion of 12% for multiple dwellings in
the RM-4 and RM-4N districts;
c. increasing the amount of floor area excluded for balconies and decks
from 8% to 12% in the I-1, I-1A, I-1B, I-4, IC-1, IC-2, M-1, M-1A, M-1B
and M-2 districts and for multiple dwellings in the RM-1, RM-1N, and
RM-2;
(v) update and improve the consistency of regulations and for covered porch,
entry and verandah by:
a. allowing a covered porch, entry and verandah to project into a front
yard by up to 1.8 m for any dwelling unit in most RA, RS, RT, and RM
districts;
b. excluding floor area under a covered entry, porch and verandah if it is
less than 2.0 m in height, not heated, and there is no access from the
interior of the building, in the RA, RS, RT, RM and FSD districts; and
c. introducing a combined floor area exclusion of 13% for covered porch,
entry and verandah, balcony, and deck for all dwelling types in the
RA, RS, RT-1, RT-2, RT-5, RT-5N, RT-6, RT-9, RM-3 and RM-3A
districts;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 4
d. introducing a combined floor area exclusion for covered porch, entry
and verandah, balcony, and deck of 13% for dwellings other than
multiple dwellings and 16% for multiple dwellings in the RM-1, RM-1N,
RM-2, RM-4, RM-4N, districts; and
e. introducing a combined floor area exclusion for covered porch, entry
and verandah, balcony, and deck of 16% in the RM-5, RM-5A,
RM-5B, RM-5C and RM-5D districts;
(vi) make various housekeeping amendments to correct references and
errors in numbering and spelling;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
C. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Central Waterfront Official
Development Plan to correct terminology related to the application of relaxations
and discretion, generally in accordance with Appendix C of the Report dated
May 12, 2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning &
Development and Parking By-laws”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix C of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
D. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Coal Harbour Official Development
Plan to correct terminology related to the application of relaxations and
discretion, generally in accordance with Appendix D of the Report dated
May 12, 2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning &
Development and Parking By-laws”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix D of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
E. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Downtown Official Development
Plan to update terms for balcony, porch, deck, roof deck, to apply the floor area
exclusion for balconies and decks to non-residential uses, as well as residential
uses, and to correct terminology related to the application of relaxations and
discretion generally in accordance with Appendix E of the Report dated

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 5
May 12, 2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning &
Development and Parking By-laws”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix E of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
F. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Downtown Eastside/Oppenheimer
Official Development Plan to update terms for balcony, porch, deck, roof deck, to
apply the floor area exclusion for balconies and decks to non-residential uses, as
well as residential uses, and to correct terminology related to the application of
relaxations and discretion generally in accordance with Appendix F of the Report
dated May 12, 2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning &
Development and Parking By-laws”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix F of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
G. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the False Creek Official Development
Plan to correct terminology related to the application of relaxations and
discretion, generally in accordance with Appendix G of the Report dated
May 12, 2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning &
Development and Parking By-laws”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix G of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
H. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Southeast Granville Slopes Official
Development Plan to update terms for balcony, porch, deck, roof deck and to
apply the floor area exclusion for balconies and decks to non-residential uses, as
well as residential uses, and to correct terminology related to the application of
relaxations and discretion, generally in accordance with Appendix H of the
Report dated May 12, 2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign - Amendments to
Zoning & Development and Parking By-laws”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 6
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix H of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
I. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to amend the Parking By-law to make various
housekeeping amendments to correct references, generally in accordance with
Appendix I of the Report dated May 12, 2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign -
Amendments to Zoning & Development and Parking By-laws”;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix I of the
above-noted report, for consideration at Public Hearing.
J. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability be
instructed to make application to:
(i) subject to approval of A(i) above, amend several land use documents to
update terms, in accordance with Appendix J of the Report dated May 12,
2020, entitled “Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning &
Development and Parking By laws”; and
(ii) make housekeeping amendments in various land use policy documents,
in accordance with Appendix K of the Report dated May 12, 2020, entitled
“Regulation Redesign - Amendments to Zoning & Development and
Parking By laws”.
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05943)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
2. Enabling Mass Timber Construction
April 2, 2020
* * * * *
Prior to the start of the item 2, it was
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be extended past noon in order to complete the staff presentation on
item 2, “Enabling Mass Timber Construction”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 7
* * * * *
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, introduced the item
and Patrick Enright, Green Building Engineer, Sustainability Group, presented on the item.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:08 pm and reconvened at 1:08 pm.
* * * * *
Following the recess, staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Building By-law
generally in the form attached as Appendix A, of the Report dated April 2, 2020,
entitled “Enabling Mass Timber Construction”, to align with provincial regulation
and National Building Code proposals enabling encapsulated mass timber
construction up to 12 storeys for residential and commercial uses, to come into
force and take effect on July 1, 2020;
FURTHER THAT that the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
above-noted report.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Fire By-law generally in
the form attached as Appendix B of the Report dated April 2, 2020, entitled
“Enabling Mass Timber Construction”, adopting amendments to the BC Fire
Code related to encapsulated mass timber construction, to come into force and
take effect on July 1, 2020;
FURTHER THAT that the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
above-noted report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05944)
3. Reallocation of Road Space to Support Shared Use During Pandemic
At the Council meeting on May 12, 2020, Council referred the above-noted motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on May 13, 2020, in order to hear
from speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, the motion was deferred to the Standing

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 8
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 27, 2020, for the Committee to
continue debate and decision.
* * * * *
On May 13, 2020, the Committee completed hearing from speakers. During discussion
and debate, the motion was amended as follows prior to the Committee adjourning at
10 pm:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to take immediate steps to expedite efforts to identify
and implement appropriate reallocations of road space, such as high use
greenways and streets adjacent to parks where space could be reallocated
temporarily to enable safe shared use (pedestrians, cyclists, motor vehicles) and
support safe physical distancing during the COVID-19 pandemic response;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to communicate information to the public
and businesses regarding the suite of street measures available to the City for
reallocating space to support access to local businesses, to support loading and
curbside pick-up, and to support physical activity and distancing in
neighbourhoods across the city;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council in fall 2020
on refined options for mobility and public realm use us as part of the post COVID-
19 recovery and new economy.
B. THAT City of Vancouver staff consult with Downtown Eastside (DTES) service
providers, residents and businesses to create a plan for DTES street
management in the interests of the community, while allowing access for transit
and first responders.
C. THAT Council direct staff to continue with public consultation, including through
the Vancouver Plan, to aid in identifying appropriate reallocations of road space
to people-focused public space throughout the city, and consider changes that
could become longer term or possibly permanent.
D. THAT Council approve in principle the prioritization of additional staff and budget
resources to support the reallocation of road space, and direct staff to seek out
cost recovery opportunities where possible and where reallocation of road space
may be for private use.
* * * * *
amended

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 9
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added to the end of A as the fourth clause:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to examine how street closures might be
aligned with the City's Rain City plan to both alleviate Combined Sewer Overflow
pollution and save tax dollars at the same time.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the word “closures” be struck and replaced with the word “reallocation”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05945)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 05946) with Councillor De Genova opposed.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the first clause of A be amended by inserting the word “temporary” between the
words “appropriate” and “reallocations”.
LOST (Vote No. 05947)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart
opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the phrase “with a report back on reallocation goal of a minimum of 11% of today’s
street space” be added at the end of C.
carried unanimously
At 2:23pm, Councillor De Genova rose on a point of order under Section 8.7 of the Procedure
By-law, noting the language of the proposed amendment does not relate to the original intent of
the motion.
The City Manager through the Chair confirmed that staff were considering the parallel prospects
of the motion regarding temporary versus permanent resolutions; if passed, staff would proceed
to addressing the request together. Thus, the Chair ruled that the amendment was not out of
order.
Following the ruling, the amendment was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05948),
with Councillor De Genova abstaining from the vote and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the following be added to the end of C:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 10
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to move urgently on implementing bus
prioritization measures to enable faster and more reliable bus travel, reduce road
congestion as the economy restarts, and support safe physical distancing on
transit vehicles and at stops and station areas, and that priority be given to routes
most used by essential workers.
carried unanimously
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the words “move urgently” be struck and replaced with the phrase “consult with
Translink and report back in the fourth quarter”;
FURTHER THAT the words “on transit vehicles and” be struck.
withdrawn
Following the receipt of additional information provided by the City Manager through the Chair,
Councillor Dominato requested to withdraw the amendment to the amendment and the Council
so agreed.
The amendment to the amendment having been withdrawn, the amendment was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05949) with Councillor De Genova abstaining from the
vote.
Prior to the vote, the Committee agreed to sever the components of the motion as follows:
A. THAT Council direct staff to take immediate steps to expedite efforts to identify
and implement appropriate reallocations of road space, such as high use
greenways and streets adjacent to parks where space could be reallocated
temporarily to enable safe shared use (pedestrians, cyclists, motor vehicles) and
support safe physical distancing during the COVID-19 pandemic response;
CARRIED (Vote No. 05950)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to communicate information to the public
and businesses regarding the suite of street measures available to the City for
reallocating space to support access to local businesses, to support loading and
curbside pick-up, and to support physical activity and distancing in
neighbourhoods across the city;
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05951)
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council in fall 2020 on
refined options for mobility and public realm use us as part of the post COVID-19
recovery and new economy.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05952)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 11
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to examine how street reallocation
might be aligned with the City's Rain City plan to both alleviate Combined Sewer
Overflow pollution and save tax dollars at the same time.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05954)
B. THAT City of Vancouver staff consult with Downtown Eastside (DTES) service
providers, residents and businesses to create a plan for DTES street
management in the interests of the community, while allowing access for transit
and first responders.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05955)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
C. THAT Council direct staff to continue with public consultation, including through
the Vancouver Plan, to aid in identifying appropriate reallocations of road space
to people-focused public space throughout the city, and consider changes that
could become longer term or possibly permanent with a report back on a
reallocation goal of a minimum of 11% of today’s street space.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05956)
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to move urgently on implementing bus
prioritization measures to enable faster and more reliable bus travel, reduce road
congestion as the economy restarts, and support safe physical distancing on
transit vehicles and at stops and station areas, and that priority be given to routes
most used by essential workers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05957)
D. THAT Council approve in principle the prioritization of additional staff and budget
resources to support the reallocation of road space, and direct staff to seek out
cost recovery opportunities where possible and where reallocation of road space
may be for private use.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05958)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to take immediate steps to expedite efforts to identify
and implement appropriate reallocations of road space, such as high use
greenways and streets adjacent to parks where space could be reallocated
temporarily to enable safe shared use (pedestrians, cyclists, motor vehicles) and
support safe physical distancing during the COVID-19 pandemic response;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 12
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to communicate information to the public
and businesses regarding the suite of street measures available to the City for
reallocating space to support access to local businesses, to support loading and
curbside pick-up, and to support physical activity and distancing in
neighbourhoods across the city;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council in fall 2020 on
refined options for mobility and public realm use us as part of the post COVID-19
recovery and new economy;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to examine how street reallocation
might be aligned with the City's Rain City plan to both alleviate Combined Sewer
Overflow pollution and save tax dollars at the same time.
B. THAT City of Vancouver staff consult with Downtown Eastside (DTES) service
providers, residents and businesses to create a plan for DTES street
management in the interests of the community, while allowing access for transit
and first responders.
C. THAT Council direct staff to continue with public consultation, including through
the Vancouver Plan, to aid in identifying appropriate reallocations of road space
to people-focused public space throughout the city, and consider changes that
could become longer term or possibly permanent with a report back on a
reallocation goal of a minimum of 11% of today’s street space;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to move urgently on implementing bus
prioritization measures to enable faster and more reliable bus travel, reduce road
congestion as the economy restarts, and support safe physical distancing on
transit vehicles and at stops and station areas, and that priority be given to routes
most used by essential workers.
D. THAT Council approve in principle the prioritization of additional staff and budget
resources to support the reallocation of road space, and direct staff to seek out
cost recovery opportunities where possible and where reallocation of road space
may be for private use.
4. Recalibrating the Housing Vancouver Strategy post COVID-19
At the Council meeting on May 12, 2020, Council referred the above-noted motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on May 13, 2020, in order to hear
from speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, the motion was deferred to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 27, 2020 in order to hear from
speakers and engage in debate and decision.
At 3:29 pm, prior to the start of the first speaker, Mayor Stewart rose on a point of order under
sections 8.7 (a), 3.3, 9.3 and 9.2 of the Procedure By-law, noting that the forthcoming
amendment (to be proposed by Councillor Hardwick) was not submitted with adequate time for
the public to review.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 13
Following a short recess and conferring with Legal staff, the Chair ruled that the original motion
submitted by Councillor Hardwick was in order. Speakers were reminded that they should
speak to the original motion and not to any amended versions not yet on the floor of Council.
The Committee heard from five speakers in support of the motion and one speaker in
opposition.
* * * * *
At 4:55 pm, during questions to speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be extended past 5 pm in order to complete hearing from speakers to
item 4, “Recalibrating the Housing Vancouver Strategy post COVID-19”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
At 5:02 pm, Mayor Stewart rose on a point of order under Section 6.1 of the Procedure By-law
noting the question to the current speaker impugn the motives of a Council member. The Chair
ruled in favour and reminded Council to be mindful of language that may impugn the motive of
other Council members.
At 5:08 pm, following the conclusion of hearing from speakers, it was,
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recess and reconvene at 7:15 pm, after the Special Council
meeting.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:09 pm and reconvened at 7:20 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 14
1. The City of Vancouver needs to make the right decisions going forward to create
the housing we need in the period following the COVID-19 pandemic;
2. The Housing Vancouver Strategy (HVS) was passed by the previous City Council
in 20171;
3. The Housing Vancouver Strategy’s goal is 72,000 new homes across Vancouver in
the next 10 years (between 2018 and 2027)2;
4. Population growth has been consistent at approximately 1% per annum over the
past 20 years according to Statistics Canada census data. Based on this
historical trend, a similar growth rate for the coming decade would amount to a
population increase of around 66,000. In the City of Vancouver, the average
household size is 2.2 individuals per dwelling unit (or “home”)3;
5. The target of 72,000 new homes across Vancouver in the next 10 years
multiplied by 2.2 would mean a population increase of 158,400 - more than twice
the historical rate. A projected historical rate of population growth would imply
instead a need for roughly 30,000 new housing units over the coming decade;
6. Population growth has generally come through immigration as opposed to
domestic migration. While the federal government has increased immigration
targets by around 20 percent since 2017, there is evidence that immigration will
slow in upcoming years due to the pandemic. Even the increased rate of
immigration, though, could not justify the large disparity between historical rates
of population growth and the HVS targets;
7. Demand for different housing types may shift as a result of the post-pandemic
realities. In order to plan effectively, it will be necessary to obtain more detailed
data regarding the pipeline of development that has been underway since the
approval of the Housing Vancouver Strategy; and
8. A revised and more accurate understanding of demographic needs and demand
will assist in properly planning for the post COVID-19 reality. Setting excessively
high targets will pressure the City of Vancouver to grant significant amounts of
density at a low price, in an attempt to induce housing construction approaching
the HVS targets. This will cost the City of Vancouver potential revenue, and will
mean that the City abandons its commitment to having growth pay for itself.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to revisit the Housing Vancouver Strategy targets to
align with historical and projected population growth based on census data.
1
https://council.vancouver.ca/20171128/documents/rr1.pdf
2
https://vancouver.ca/people-programs/housing-vancouver-strategy.aspx
3
https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2016/dp-
pd/prof/details/page.cfm?Lang=E&Geo1=CSD&Geo2=PR&Code2=01&SearchType=Begins&SearchPR=
01&TABID=1&B1=All&type=0&Code1=5915022&SearchText=vancouver

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 15
B. THAT Council direct staff to provide annual historical data since 2000 on the
number of units approved through rezoning, the breakdown of housing types that
have been approved, housing starts and net housing completions, and estimated
zoned capacity for the City of Vancouver.
C. THAT Council direct staff to confirm that annual targets provide only a rough
estimate for growth, and not a strict requirement - i.e. targets do not need to be
met every year.
D. THAT Council direct staff to clarify whether the Vancouver Housing Strategy
targets refer to net housing completions or gross housing completions.
E. THAT Council direct staff to provide detailed inventory data through the Open
Data Portal4 of housing starts, development projects anticipated in the pipeline
(including form and type of units), and existing zoned capacity (disaggregated by
local area) to inform this work.
F. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the above for Council consideration
by the Council meeting, June 9, 2020.
amended
At 7:21 pm, as Councillor Hardwick was introducing an amendment, Mayor Stewart rose on a
point of order per Sections 8.7 (a) and 9.3 of the Procedure By-law noting that the process in
which the amendment was brought forward was not submitted in a timely manner in order to
allow public review and participation; and further, that the proposed amendment altered the
original intent of the motion.
The Chair ruled that the original motion submitted by Councillor Hardwick was in order and that
the proposed amendment does not alter the original intent of the motion. The Chair reminded
Committee members to thoroughly review their motions prior to submitting for the Committee’s
consideration.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Whereas clause 6 be struck and replaced with “Population growth has
generally come through immigration as opposed to domestic migration.”
FURTHER THAT the resolution be struck and replaced with the following:
A. THAT Council direct staff to provide transparent data to serve as the
basis of subsequent analysis, and then policy recalibration as part of the
Vancouver Plan process and the associated Regional Growth Strategy
(RGS) update;
B. THAT Council direct staff to provide the following for the City of
Vancouver as a whole and broken down by neighbourhood or district:
4
https://opendata.vancouver.ca/pages/home/

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 16
Annual historical data since 2010 to present for:
● rezoning and development permit applications for new housing
development, listed by project, including data on the actual or
estimated number and type of housing units, and the status of
each project (approved; modified; rejected; in progress;
construction started; occupancy permit);
● summary of census data for annual population and unit growth;
● estimated or actual (where available) on the number of units lost
through rezoning or redevelopment and net changes in
affordability;
Additional current data and information:
● list of rezoning and development projects currently anticipated that
are in a preliminary planning stage, the project status with
estimated timelines, proposed form of development, unit numbers
and types of housing for each project;
● estimated zoned capacity, broken down by each zone and by
neighbourhood, numbers and types of units, with estimated total
and annual build-out;
● existing data (where available) on the city’s secondary rental
market (non-purpose-built rentals such as condos, secondary
conversions or unauthorized suites) the number and type of rental
units, monthly rent, and vacancy rate;
C. THAT Council direct staff to confirm that the Housing Vancouver targets
are aspirational to achieve the right supply of housing and provide only a
rough estimate for growth, and not a strict requirement - i.e. targets do not
need to be met every year;
D. THAT Council direct staff to clarify whether the Vancouver Housing
Strategy targets refer to net housing completions or gross housing
completions; and
E. THAT Council direct staff to report back via memo with the requested
data and information as listed above for Council consideration in
July 2020, and to provide a timeline for when the data will be posted
through the Open Data Portal.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the fourth bullet point in B be amended to insert the phrase, “and ballpark
breakdown of household incomes required to afford each unit, as well as accessibility
data” between the phrases “unit numbers and types of housing” and “for each project”.
carried unanimously

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 17
At 7:32 pm, Councillor De Genova rose on a point of order under Section 8.7(f) of the Procedure
By-law as the amendment to the amendment appeared redundant and frivolous as the
information is forthcoming in other staff reports. The Chair ruled against the Point of Order as
the amendment to the amendment is consistent with the list of information being sought in the
motion.
Subsequently, the amendment to the amendment was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Vote No. 05979) with Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart abstaining from the vote.
At 7:44 pm, after conferring with legal staff, the City Manager through the Chair advised that a
portion of the language in the fourth bullet point in B of the amended motion conflicts with legal
governance; specifically, that staff are unable to disclose or answer inquiries regarding
preliminary planning stages of applications and projects due to confidentiality provisions.
Subsequently, at 7:48 pm, Councillor Boyle rose on a point of order per section 8.7(f) of the
Procedure By-law as the information requested in the amended fourth bullet point of B is not
something staff provide. The Chair ruled in favour of the Point of Order noting that it is not
compatible with the purposes and objects of the Vancouver Charter and conflicts with the good
governance of the City. Following the Chair’s ruling, the fourth bullet point was removed.
At 7:51 pm, Mayor Stewart rose on a point of parliamentary procedure and inquired whether the
entire amended motion would be ruled out of order if one portion of the amended motion was
ruled out of order.
Following a short recess, the Chair ruled that the remaining motion as amended was in order.
Subsequently, the amendment as amended was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote
No. 05980) with Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart abstaining from the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT in B, the following clause be inserted, as the fourth bullet point following the
phrase “Additional current data and information:”
● list of rezoning and development projects, the project status with estimated
timelines, proposed form of development, unit numbers and types of housing,
and ballpark breakdown of household incomes required to afford each unit,
as well as accessibility data for each project;
carried
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the question be called on the amendment.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
The amendment was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05981) with Mayor Stewart
abstaining from the vote. Subsequently, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 18
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05983) with Councillor Boyle and Mayor Stewart abstaining from the
vote.
Note: For clarity, the fourth bullet point of B was removed by the Chair’s ruling on a point of
order raised by Councillor Boyle. A fourth bullet point was subsequently reinserted when
Councillor Swanson proposed an amendment that was carried.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to provide transparent data to serve as the basis of
subsequent analysis, and then policy recalibration as part of the Vancouver Plan
process and the associated Regional Growth Strategy (RGS) update.
B. THAT Council direct staff to provide the following for the City of Vancouver as a
whole and broken down by neighbourhood or district:
Annual historical data since 2010 to present for:
● rezoning and development permit applications for new housing
development, listed by project, including data on the actual or estimated
number and type of housing units, and the status of each project
(approved; modified; rejected; in progress; construction started;
occupancy permit);
● summary of census data for annual population and unit growth;
● estimated or actual (where available) on the number of units lost through
rezoning or redevelopment and net changes in affordability;
Additional current data and information:
● list of rezoning and development projects, the project status with
estimated timelines, proposed form of development, unit numbers and
types of housing, and ballpark breakdown of household incomes required
to afford each unit, as well as accessibility data for each project;
● estimated zoned capacity, broken down by each zone and by
neighbourhood, numbers and types of units, with estimated total and
annual build-out;
● existing data (where available) on the city’s secondary rental market (non-
purpose-built rentals such as condos, secondary conversions or
unauthorized suites) the number and type of rental units, monthly rent,
and vacancy rate;
C. THAT Council direct staff to confirm that the Housing Vancouver targets are
aspirational to achieve the right supply of housing and provide only a rough
estimate for growth, and not a strict requirement - i.e. targets do not need to be
met every year;
D. THAT Council direct staff to clarify whether the Vancouver Housing Strategy
targets refer to net housing completions or gross housing completions; and
E. THAT Council direct staff to report back via memo with the requested data and
information as listed above for Council consideration in July 2020, and to provide
a timeline for when the data will be posted through the Open Data Portal.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 19
5. Enhancing COVID-19 Revenue Streams for Smaller Unlicensed Restaurants and
Cafes via Temporary Liquor Licensing
At the Council meeting on May 26, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 27, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers.
Dr. Patricia Daly, Vice President, Public Health and Chief Medical Health Officer, Vancouver
Coastal Health, commended the City for their commitments and efforts in supporting local
business in their recovery processes during the pandemic, however, Dr. Daly spoke in
opposition to the motion and outlined the associated health and safety concerns.
Deputy Chief Constable Howard Chow presented and spoke to other aspects of the motion and
proposed suggestions for the Committee’s consideration and asked that his comments be
applied to agenda items 5 through 7.
* * * * *
At 9:32 pm, due to telephone connectivity issues, the Committee recessed and reconvened at
9:35 pm.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
Following the recess, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be extended past 10 pm to complete hearing from speakers on item
5, “Enhancing COVID-19 Revenue Streams for Smaller Unlicensed Restaurants and
Cafes via Temporary Liquor Licensing”.
FURTHER THAT the Committee refer debate and decision of items 6 through 9 to the
reconvening Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on Tuesday,
June 2, 2020.
CARRIED AND BY THE
REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Boyle opposed)
The Committee completed hearing from three speakers in support of the motion.
* * * * *
On May 27, 2020, the Committee recessed at 10:18 pm and
reconvened at 3:08 pm on June 2, 2020.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 20
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. COVID-19 has placed an unprecedented strain on the finances of Vancouver
residents and business owners alike, and also on the City’s finances;
2. To help reduce financial stress for residents and business, while also helping the
City to maintain essential public services, Council recently approved a variety of
measures to protect the public and position Vancouver for an eventual recovery.
For example, on April 28, 2020, Council approved a delay in the 2020 payment
deadline for both residential and commercial property taxes which will now be on
September 30, 2020;
3. Prior to the Council meeting on April 28, 2020, Council met to declare a State of
Emergency in Vancouver in response to COVID-19 (on March 19, 2020). And on
March 23, 2020, Council voted to give City of Vancouver staff the power to
enforce orders under the City’s State of Emergency bylaw, including the ability to
prosecute breaches of emergency orders, and the ability to issue tickets,
underscoring the serious impact of this disease on the people and economy of
the city and its businesses;
https://council.vancouver.ca/20200319/documents/spec20200319min.pdf
4. It has been widely reported that Vancouver’s vibrant and diverse restaurant
sector has been particularly hard hit by COVID-19 due to closures ordered by the
province. Many are fighting for their survival and have implemented various
emergency strategies to sustain their hard hit businesses through this difficult
time;
5. Recent feedback received by Council from Vancouver’s BIAs relating to COVID-
19 and the city’s restaurant sector has included recommendations to expedite
and otherwise reduce costs and barriers for permits and licensing of patios and
takeaway food and a recommendation to allow smaller, unlicensed restaurants
and cafes – which currently fall under the City’s Limited Food Service designation
– the ability to offer liquor sales to help them survive by means of an additional
revenue stream;
6. Council will consider a motion recently brought forward by Councillor Kirby-Yung
which seeks greater flexibility on the part of the City to make it easier for
restaurants to open patios and offer open-air dining during the COVID-19 crisis,
signaling Council’s collective keen interest in securing the survival of the city’s
restaurant sector;
7. In 2013, the Province undertook the Liquor Policy Review, one of the largest
public engagements in B.C.’s history focused on bringing liquor laws into the 21st
century. The Province’s efforts to modernize liquor laws were focused on

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 21
increasing consumer choice, creating new opportunities for businesses, and
enhancing public health and safety; https://news.gov.bc.ca/factsheets/factsheet-
modernized-liquor-laws-benefit-bc-consumers-and-businesses [news.gov.bc.ca]
8. On June 14, 2017, Council adopted policy changes affecting businesses that
serve and retail liquor in response to the Province’s modernization of B.C.’s
liquor laws. Three goals were set for the City liquor policy:
• Protect health, safety, and community livability
• Foster creativity, community connection, and local economy
• Ensure regulatory framework is effective and efficient
and
9. In accordance with recent feedback received by Council from Vancouver’s BIAs
relating to COVID-19 and the city’s restaurant sector, there is a large group of
Vancouver businesses that serve food (under the Limited Food Service
designation) that cannot currently sell liquor. By making appropriate and well-
considered adjustments to the City’s relevant liquor-related by-law(s), and
associated regulations, in this time of COVID-19 it would provide smaller
restaurants and cafes with the ability to offer liquor sales in addition to food and
would invariably have an immediate positive effect on their small business
revenue stream and support their survival during this time of COVID-19.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to explore by-law and licensing options on an urgent basis,
including consultation with relevant stakeholders such as local BIAs, that would allow
smaller unlicensed restaurants and cafes which serve food, and which currently fall
under the City’s Limited Food Service designation, to sell liquor (consistent with all
related provincial legislation and regulations) in order to provide these small businesses
with an additional source of revenue during this time of COVID-19;
FURTHER THAT staff report back on an urgent basis with recommendations accordingly
to support the economic survival of this significant segment of Vancouver’s wider
restaurant and entertainment sector currently impacted by COVID-19.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the motion be struck and replaced with the following:
THAT Council direct staff to work with their provincial counterparts in the Liquor
and Cannabis Regulation Branch (LCRB) on an urgent priority basis to explore
temporary licensing options and/or measures that would allow smaller unlicensed
restaurants and cafes in Vancouver that serve food, and which currently fall
under the City’s Limited Food Service designation, to sell liquor in order to
provide these small businesses with an additional source of survival revenue

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 22
during this time of COVID-19, and for staff to report back to Council on this
matter with recommendations at the earliest possible moment;
FURTHER THAT Council direct the Mayor to write to the Premier and the
Attorney General on behalf of Council to convey Council’s strong desire to
secure the survival of the city’s smaller unlicensed restaurants and cafes (i.e.,
those that fall under the City’s Limited Food Service designation) during this time
of COVID-19 and Council’s strong support for some form of temporary measures
and/or authorizations by the province that would allow smaller unlicensed
restaurants and cafes in the city to sell liquor on a temporary survival basis.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06002)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following sentence be added to the end of the first clause:
“that those recommendations consider public health and safety, as well as caps
on the number of licenses per neighbourhood.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06004)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06005).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council direct staff to work with their provincial counterparts in the Liquor and
Cannabis Regulation Branch (LCRB) on an urgent priority basis to explore temporary
licensing options and/or measures that would allow smaller unlicensed restaurants and
cafes in Vancouver that serve food, and which currently fall under the City’s Limited
Food Service designation, to sell liquor in order to provide these small businesses with
an additional source of survival revenue during this time of COVID-19, and for staff to
report back to Council on this matter with recommendations at the earliest possible
moment, and that those recommendations consider public health and safety, as well as
caps on the number of licenses per neighbourhood;
FURTHER THAT Council direct the Mayor to write to the Premier and the Attorney
General on behalf of Council to convey Council’s strong desire to secure the survival of
the city’s smaller unlicensed restaurants and cafes (i.e., those that fall under the City’s
Limited Food Service designation) during this time of COVID-19 and Council’s strong
support for some form of temporary measures and/or authorizations by the province that
would allow smaller unlicensed restaurants and cafes in the city to sell liquor on a
temporary survival basis.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 23
6. Allowing Responsible Alcohol Consumption in Vancouver Parks and Beaches
At the Council meeting on May 26, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 27, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, the item was referred to June 2, 2020, for
continuation.
On June 2, 2020, the Committee heard from two speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Increasing numbers of Vancouver residents, particularly renters and low or
middle income residents, are living in multi-family housing with limited access to
private outdoor space (e.g. backyards, etc.) that only a minority of more affluent
residents have the luxury to enjoy. This increased density provides more
affordability and a lower ecological footprint, and it results in more Vancouver
residents relying on public outdoor space such as parks and beaches as an
extension of their living space;
2. While we don’t have race or class-disaggregated data on local enforcement of
existing bylaws, unconscious class and race biases are commonly acknowledged
to exist, and may play a role both in what incidents enforcement officers are
called to respond to, and how they respond to those incidents. Where bylaws
such as existing restrictions on the responsible consumption of alcohol in public
parks and beaches are regularly not adhered to by a wide swath of people,
enforcement of the bylaw is at the discretion of individual police or bylaw officers,
which may result in a real or perceived inequality in the application of the rules;
3. The COVID-19 Public Health Emergency has resulted in changes in nearly every
aspect of civic life, including restrictions on in-house dining in local restaurants,
pubs and breweries, restrictions on travel, and the cancellation of large public
events and festivals. These restrictions, though necessary and appropriate, have
had significant financial impacts on local businesses;
4. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Province has allowed restaurants to
sell packaged liquor products accompanying a meal purchase, for pick-up or
delivery, as a way to support local businesses and allow those businesses to
keep as many staff working as possible;
5. BC’s Provincial Health Officer, Dr. Bonnie Henry, has said that the coronavirus is
less likely to be transmitted outdoors than indoors, and has encouraged people
to go outside while keeping a safe physical distance from those outside their
immediate circle. Dr Henry has also advised British Columbians that going for
walks and spending time in parks is important for mental health;
6. As spring weather has arrived, an increasing number of Vancouver residents can
be seen socializing and eating meals outdoors, frequently while responsibly

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 24
consuming local beer or wine. While not everyone is respecting public health
directions to maintain a 2m distance from those not in your immediate circle, the
vast majority of Vancouver residents have been acting safely and responsibly;
7. Many countries and cities around the world have adopted more lenient policies,
bylaws and legislations, permitting the responsible consumption of alcohol in
public spaces. Countries such as the UK, Germany and Japan permit drinking in
public places. Some places, including Montreal, permit the drinking of alcoholic
beverages within parks but only when accompanied by a meal or a picnic. While
other places, including New South Wales, permit the public consumption of
alcohol outside of specifically designated no-drinking areas, which must be
publicly marked;
8. In September 2018, the Vancouver Park Board approved an updated Park Board
Concession Strategy which included a recommendation to “Assess the feasibility
of offering alcohol sales at select Park Board run concessions though an alcohol
sales pilot at the English Bay and Kitsilano Beach concessions, in collaboration
with the current restaurant operators”;
9. In developing this updated strategy, the Park Board completed a comprehensive
stakeholder and public engagement program, including research which showed
that “79% of survey respondents agree or strongly agree with the sale of
alcoholic beverages at concessions”;
10. In December 2018, the Vancouver Park Board unanimously approved a motion
from Commissioner Dave Demers to “conduct a feasibility study for a pilot project
that would allow the public to consume their own alcoholic beverages on select
parks and beaches.” This feasibility study was to be completed at the end of
2019, but has been slightly delayed;
11. Due to COVID related travel restriction, the summer of 2020 will see fewer
visitors and festivals in Vancouver;
12. Laws at the provincial and federal levels prohibiting public intoxication, causing a
public disturbance, or consuming alcohol under-age, apply across Vancouver.
Vancouver also has local noise by-laws to limit public disturbance, and
Vancouver Parks and Beaches close to the public at 10 pm unless otherwise
posted on site; and
13. It is the Park Board’s understanding that consumption of alcoholic beverages at
parks and beaches is within the Park Board’s jurisdiction, and is currently
prohibited through the Parks Control By-laws.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT in light of equity considerations and changes related to COVID-19, Council
encourages the Vancouver Park Board to urgently amend the Parks Control
By-laws to allow responsible alcohol consumption in parks and beaches within
Park Board jurisdiction, as quickly as possible.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 25
B. THAT, if required, Council directs city staff to collaborate with provincial partners
to clarify appropriate processes and jurisdictional concerns and report back to
Council with a recommended process for legalizing the responsible alcohol
consumption in parks and beaches as quickly as possible;
FURTHER THAT, if a report back is necessary, a copy of it be shared with the
Park Board.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the motion be struck and replaced with the following:
THAT Council refer this motion to the Vancouver Park Board for their
consideration, and affirm Council’s support for the Park Board’s planned and
measured pilot initiative that would enable the assessment of public health and
other impacts, as well as unique considerations pertinent to COVID-19.
LOST (Vote No. 06006)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry and Wiebe opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT in A, Council strike the phrase “urgently amend Parks Control By laws” and
replace with the phrase “initiate a timely pilot project”.
carried unanimously
At 4:21 pm, Councillor Kirby-Yung rose on a point of order under Section 8.7 (c) and (f) of the
Procedure By-law noting that the proposed amendment contained the same language as the
previous amendment that was put and lost and is therefore redundant and frivolous.
Following a short recess, the Chair ruled that the amendment was in order as it does not
substantially deal with a matter that was previously decided and therefore, not redundant.
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT in A, the phrase “including the input of the Vancouver Police Department,
Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services and Vancouver Coastal Health” be inserted after
the phrase “initiate a timely pilot project”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06007)
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT A be amended to insert the word “select” between the words “in” and “parks”.
carried

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 26
At 4:37 pm, Councillor Fry rose on a point of order under Section 8.7 (f) of the Procedure By-law
noting that the amendment to the amendment was frivolous as areas are to be designated by
definition per Section 73 of the Liquor Control Act.
Following a short recess and after conferring with legal staff, the Chair ruled that the
amendment to the amendment was in order because the intention of the amendment to the
amendment was to provide more specificity and therefore, not redundant.
Following the Chair’s ruling, the amendment to the amendment was put and CARRIED (Vote
No. 06008), with Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry and Swanson opposed. Subsequently, the
amendment as amended was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06009).
* * * * *
At 4:54 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the meeting be extended past 5 pm in order to complete item 6 and to hear from
the registered speaker for item 7.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
At 5:01 pm, Councillor De Genova, rose on a point of order under Section 8.7 (a) of the
Procedure By-law noting that resolution B is not compatible with the Vancouver Charter and is
not within the Committee’s jurisdiction.
Following a short recess and after conferring with legal staff, the Chair ruled that B was out of
order as it is not within good governance under the Vancouver Charter and that it is out of the
Committee’s jurisdiction.
Following the Chair’s ruling, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 06010),
with Councillor Swanson opposed and Councillor Hardwick abstaining from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT in light of equity considerations and changes related to COVID-19, Council
encourages the Vancouver Park Board to initiate a timely pilot project including the input
of the Vancouver Police Department, Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services and
Vancouver Coastal Health to allow responsible alcohol consumption in select parks and
beaches within Park Board jurisdiction, as quickly as possible.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 27
7. Designating Public Space for Responsible Consumption of Alcohol
At the Council meeting on May 26, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 27, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, the item was referred to June 2, 2020, for
continuation.
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:35 pm and reconvened at 6:32 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. COVID-19 public health response and mandated physical distancing has limited
the ability for Vancouverites to socialize with friends and family in their homes or
licensed public establishments;
2. In 2019, Vancouver’s elected Park Board unanimously approved “Alcohol
Consumption at Vancouver Parks and Beaches” a pilot to look at responsible
enjoyment of alcoholic beverages in designated areas of select parks/beaches;
3. On March 21, 2020, the Attorney General of British Columbia announced Liquor
and Cannabis Regulation Branch Policy Directive No: 20-05, permitting sale and
delivery of packaged liquor for off-site consumption with the purchase of a meal;5
4. On May 13, 2020, Council-approved motion “Flexible, Innovative and Expedited
Patio Permitting”, which supports the rapid deployment of patio spaces for the
use by business patrons; but patios legally and practically cannot be available or
accessible to non-patrons, equitably distributed throughout the city, or available
to all food and drink serving businesses;
5. On May 13, 2020, City of Vancouver’s Engineering Services and Finance staff
presented “Mobility + Public Life Response”, which offered recommendations to
reanimate and rebuild public life, considering public spaces for flexible uses like
eating and gathering as well as temporary closures of side streets to create
plazas;
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/employment-business-and-economic-development/business-
5management/liquor-regulation-licensing/policy-directives/20-
0 5_sale_and_delivery_of_packaged_liquor_from_service_area_for_off-site_consumption.pdf

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 28
6. Section 73 subsections (2) and (3) of the Liquor Control and Licensing Act permit
Council to pass a by-law that allows liquor consumption during specific hours and
in specific public places, or parts of them, that are under the jurisdiction of the
City;6 and
7. Section 73 subsection (4) of the Liquor Control and Licensing Act states that
without limiting subsection (2), regulations under that subsection may provide
that a by-law referred to in that subsection may not designate a specified public
place, or a specified public place for a specified period of time.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to prepare a by-law pursuant to Section 73 subsections
(2), (3) and (4) of the Liquor Control and Licensing Act, to allow for liquor
consumption in select public places that are under jurisdiction of the City, and
enables the creation of temporary and time limited spaces for responsible
consumption of alcohol in public.
B. THAT Council direct staff to consult with the Vancouver Police Department,
Engineering Services and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff as well
as local Business Improvement Associations and businesses (as applicable), to
recommend appropriate locations and hours for consumption of alcohol in
specified public places. Recommendations should consider, but not be limited to:
a. Public safety;
b. Crime prevention through environmental design;
c. Access to restroom facilities;
d. Proximity to neighbours; and
e. Litter receptacles.
C. THAT Council direct staff to prepare appropriate process, signage and
messaging that conveys:
a. Hours of use;
b. Conditions of use;
c. Location boundaries;
d. Rules and recommendations for the responsible consumption of alcohol;
e. Respect for neighbours and area;
f. Location of nearest restroom facilities; and
g. Complaint mechanism.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back as soon as possible with fast-tracked
priority actions and locations as pilot projects;
FURTHER THAT in the context of improving summer weather and relaxing
provincial health orders, these pilots inform a larger report back and future
considerations for this program during and after the COVID-19 pandemic.
6
http://www.bclaws.ca/civix/document/id/complete/statreg/15019#section73

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 29
lost
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following be added to A:
• The words “a pilot” be inserted after the word “allow”
• The following clause be added to the end of A: “FURTHER THAT this by-law and
prescribed locations and hours consider and are informed by B through D below”
FURTHER THAT the first clause of D be amended as follows:
At the end of the clause, add the following: “including but not limited to:
a. Ensuring equitable distribution of public spaces for the responsible
consumption of alcohol throughout the City;
b. Mitigating impacts where problem drinking might otherwise occur in
unsafe, underserviced or undesirable places;
c. Leveraging opportunities for financial or logistical support from Business
Improvement Associations and others as applicable; and
d. Supporting restaurants and patios where limited occupancy might
necessitate wait times to enter;”
carried
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following clause be added to the end of D:
AND FURTHER THAT the first pilot in this program be the piazza to celebrate
Italian Heritage Month (passed by Council in June 2019) and that its
implementation include input from Vancouver Police Department and Vancouver
Coastal Health and inform other pilot locations.
The Chair ruled that the amendment to the amendment was out of order as the language does
not relate to the original amendment.
The amendment to the amendment having been ruled out of order, the amendment was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 06011), with Councillor Swanson opposed and Councillors Hardwick and
Kirby-Yung abstaining from the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED BY Councillor Dominato
THAT in B, the words “Vancouver Coastal Health” be inserted after the words
“Vancouver Police Department” and that “Public health” be added as f. at the end of B.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06012)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 30
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following clause be added to the end of D:
AND FURTHER THAT the first pilot in this program be the piazza to celebrate
Italian Heritage Month (passed by Council in June 2019) and that its
implementation include input from Vancouver Police Department and Vancouver
Coastal Health and inform other pilot locations.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the word “the” between the words “THAT” and “first” be struck and replaced with
the word “a” and that the phrase “input from Vancouver Police Department and
Vancouver Coastal Heath and” be replaced with the words “help to”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06013)
(Councillor Swanson opposed)
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the word “first” be struck.
LOST (Vote No. 06014)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
The amendments to the amendment having either carried or lost, the amendment as amended
was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 06015) with Councillors Boyle, Swanson and Wiebe opposed
and Councillor Hardwick abstaining from the vote. Subsequently, the motion as amended was
put and LOST (Vote No. 06016) with Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung
and Swanson opposed.
8. Defining Social Housing Consistently and Transparently in the City of Vancouver
At the Council meeting on May 26, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 27, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, the item was referred to June 2, 2020, for
continuation.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Social Housing is defined by the City of Vancouver Zoning and Development By-
Law as rental housing in which at least 30 percent of the dwelling units are

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 31
occupied by households with incomes below housing income limits, as set out in
the current Housing Income Limits (HILs) table published by BC Housing; which
is owned by a non-profit corporation, non-profit co-operative association, or by or
on behalf of the City, the Province of British Columbia, or Canada; and which is
secured by a housing agreement or other legal commitment; 1
2. On March 15, 2014, Social Housing in the Downtown Eastside and elsewhere
was re-defined by amendment after but not subject to the public hearing process;
2
3. The Province of BC, through BC Housing, defines Social Housing as owned by a
not-for-profit organization, a co-op or a government. Rents are subsidized
(usually by the government) making it possible for people with lower incomes to
find housing they can afford. Household income must be below certain limits in
order to be eligible; 3
4. The Government of Canada and Province of British Columbia bilateral 10 year
Social Housing Agreement (June 2018) defines Social Housing as housing that is
owned and operated by non-profit housing corporations and housing co-
operatives or housing owned directly or indirectly by provincial, territorial or
municipal governments or district social services administration boards and
further distinguishes Social Housing from Affordable Rental, Affordable
Homeownership, Transitional Shelter or Other Supportive Housing, and
specifically commits support to 34,491 Social Housing Units, of which 20,427 are
low-income; 4
5. For purposes of census data, Statistics Canada defines Social Housing as “non-
market rental housing” (for example, where housing allocation and rent-setting
mechanisms are not entirely dictated by the law of supply and demand); 5
6. The English language and urban studies variously define Social Housing as any
rental housing that may be owned and managed by the state, by non-profit
organizations, or by a combination of the two, usually with the aim of providing
affordable housing. Social housing is generally rationed by some form of means
testing or administrative measures of housing need; 6
7. The City of Vancouver definition of Social Housing is inconsistent with the
standard definitions employed by the Province, Government of Canada Agencies
and the English-speaking world; and
8. When attempting to understand housing targets or determining the merits or
public benefits of a rezoning or development application, Vancouverites may be
confused or misled by the term Social Housing as defined by the City of
Vancouver and applied to the entire project, not just the percent or portion of
non-market affordable rental or co-op housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to review the definition of Social Housing across City
regulations, and consider alternatives that refer specifically and only to

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 32
non-market affordable rental or co-op housing.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a proposed new definition of Social
Housing and an inventory of current housing that meets this new definition of
Social Housing.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the process needed to implement any
new definition of Social Housing in City regulations.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as D:
THAT Council direct staff to consult with B.C. Housing, Canada Mortgage and
Housing Corporation (CMHC) and non-profit organizations and stakeholders
involved in the development, funding and operations of social housing in the City
of Vancouver to consider definitions for different types of housing.
FURTHER THAT staff explore ways to work with the Provincial Government and
Federal Government, including: Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM),
Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) and Lower Mainland Local Government
Association (LMLGA).
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the phrase “in consideration for updating the definition of social housing” be added
to the end of the second clause of D.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06017)
The amendment to the amendment having carried unanimously, the amendment as amended
was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06018).
___________________________
1. City of Vancouver - Housing Vancouver Strategy
https://council.vancouver.ca/20171128/documents/rr1appendixa.pdf
2. City of Vancouver – Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services, 2014
https://council.vancouver.ca/20140312/documents/cfsc20140312min.pdf
3. Government of British Columbia Housing Glossary
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/housing-tenancy/affordable-and-social-housing/housing-
glossary
4. CMHC-BC Social Housing Agreement 2018
http://www.bchousing.org/publications/CMHC-BC-Bilateral-Agreement-April-2018.pdf
5. Statistics Canada
https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=4610002401
6. Caves, R. W. (2004). Encyclopedia of the City. Routledge. p. 610. ISBN 9780415252256.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 33
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the phrase “that people in core housing need, can afford” be added to the end
of A.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the word “affordable” in A be struck.
FURTHER THAT the amendment to the amendment be struck and replaced with the
phrase “that people as defined by Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC)
core housing need indicator can afford”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06019)
(Councillors De Genova opposed)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 06020) with Councillors De Genova and Swanson opposed. Subsequently
the vote was reconsidered.
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee reconsider the vote on the amendment to the amendment for
Item 8, “Defining Social Housing Consistently and Transparently in the City of
Vancouver”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Following the reconsideration, the vote for the amendment to the amendment was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 06021) with Councillor De Genova in opposition.
Prior to the vote, the Committee agreed to sever the components of the motion as mended as
follows:
A. THAT Council direct staff to review the definition of Social Housing across City
regulations, and consider alternatives that refer specifically and only to
non-market rental or co-op housing that people as defined by Canada Mortgage
and Housing Corporation (CMHC) core housing need indicator can afford.
D. THAT Council direct staff to consult with B.C. Housing, Canada Mortgage and
Housing Corporation (CMHC) and non-profit organizations and stakeholders
involved in the development, funding and operations of social housing in the City
of Vancouver to consider definitions for different types of housing;
FURTHER THAT staff explore ways to work with the Provincial Government and
Federal Government, including: Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM),
Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) and Lower Mainland Local Government

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 34
Association (LMLGA); in consideration for updating the definition of Social
Housing.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 06028)
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a proposed new definition of Social
Housing and an inventory of current housing that meets this new definition of
Social Housing.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06023)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the process needed to implement any
new definition of Social Housing in City regulations.
CARRIED (Vote No. 06024)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to review the definition of Social Housing across City
regulations, and consider alternatives that refer specifically and only to
non-market rental or co-op housing that people as defined by Canada Mortgage
and Housing Corporation (CMHC) core housing need indicator can afford.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a proposed new definition of Social
Housing and an inventory of current housing that meets this new definition of
Social Housing.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the process needed to implement any
new definition of Social Housing in City regulations.
D. THAT Council direct staff to consult with B.C. Housing, Canada Mortgage and
Housing Corporation (CMHC) and non-profit organizations and stakeholders
involved in the development, funding and operations of social housing in the City
of Vancouver to consider definitions for different types of housing;
FURTHER THAT staff explore ways to work with the Provincial Government and
Federal Government, including: Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM),
Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) and Lower Mainland Local Government
Association (LMLGA); in consideration for updating the definition of Social
Housing.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 35
9. Short Term Landlords – Long Term Protections for Renters and Hotels
At the Council meeting on May 26, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on May 27, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers. Subsequently, due to time constraints, the item was referred to June 2, 2020, for
continuation.
Prior to hearing from speakers, Councillor Hardwick declared a conflict of interest as she owns a
licenced Airbnb property. Councillor Hardwick left the meeting at 9:16 pm and returned when the
Committee reconvened in Council at 10:14pm.
* * * * *
At 9:34 pm, during hearing from speakers, it was
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be extended past 10 pm in order to complete hearing from speakers
on item 9, and refer debate and decision on the item to the Council meeting following the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on Wednesday,
June 10, 2020, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
The Committee heard from three speakers in support, one in opposition, and one who spoke to
other aspects of the motion.
On June 2, 2020, the Committee adjourned at 10:14 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
MAY 27, 2020 AND JUNE 2, 2020
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, May 27, 2020, at
6:59 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee. Subsequently, the meeting reconvened on Tuesday, June 2, 2020, at 3:02 pm and
at 10:14 pm.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart (Leave of Absence –
Personal Reasons – June 2, 2020)*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova, Deputy Mayor
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Rowena Choi, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, May 27, 2020
Following the Special Council meeting on May 27, 2020, the Committee convened in Council at
6:59pm.
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Development and Permit Process Improvements
2. Enabling Mass Timber Construction

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 2
3. Reallocation of Road Space to Support Shared Use During Pandemic
Items 1 to 3
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of May 27, 2020, as contained in items 1 to 3, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee – May 22, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee meeting of
May 22, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
At 7:02 pm, on Wednesday, May 27, 2020, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Council meeting be recessed until the completion of the Standing Committee.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On Wednesday, May 27, 2020, Council recessed at 7:02 pm and reconvened at 9:33 pm.
* * * * *
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, May 27, 2020

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 3
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
4. Recalibrating the Housing Vancouver Strategy post COVID-19
Item 4
MOVED BY Councillor De Genova
SECONDED BY Councillor Wiebe
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of May 27, 2020, as contained in item 4, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. REZONING: 2776 Semlin Dr and 2025 East 12th Avenue
At the Public Hearing on May 26, 2020, due to time constraints, Council referred the
above-noted motion to the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting to be held on May 27, 2020, as Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council refer Item 1 of Unfinished Business – REZONING: 2776 Semlin Dr and
2025 East 12th Avenue to the Council meeting on June 9, 2020, as Unfinished
Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On Wednesday, May 27, 2020, Council recessed at 9:35 pm and reconvened on Tuesday,
June 2, 2020, at 3:02 pm with Deputy Mayor De Genova in the Chair.
On June 2, 2020, at 3:05 pm, Deputy Mayor De Genova acknowledged the recent injustices in
society. A moment of silence was taken to recognize the City’s employees and communities
who have voiced their anguish, anger and deep frustration.
* * * * *

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 4
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence – Mayor Stewart
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Mayor Stewart be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from
meetings on June 2, 2020.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
On June 2, 2020, Council recessed at 3:07 pm and reconvened at 10:14 pm with Deputy Mayor
De Genova in the Chair.
* * * * *
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Tuesday, June 2, 2020
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
5. Enhancing COVID-19 Revenue Streams for Smaller Unlicensed Restaurants and Cafes
via Temporary Liquor Licensing
6. Allowing Responsible Alcohol Consumption in Vancouver Parks and Beaches
7. Designating Public Space for Responsible Consumption of Alcohol
8. Defining Social Housing Consistently and Transparently in the City of Vancouver
9. Short Term Landlords – Long Term Protections for Renters and Hotels
Items 5 to 9
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of May 27, 2020 reconvened on June 2, 2020, as
contained in items 5 to 9, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, May 27, 2020 and Tuesday, June 2, 2020 5
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
The Council adjourned at 10:15 pm on June 2, 2020.
* * * * *