COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
MAY 26, 2020
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, May 26, 2020, at
9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order
No. M139.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT – World Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Day on May 30, 2020
The Mayor acknowledged that on May 30, 2020, Vancouver City Hall will light up to recognize
World MS Day. The Mayor noted that this year’s theme is ‘Connection’, a particularly important
idea as we are challenged by social and physical isolation during the COVID-19 pandemic and
that we must continue to advocate for life-long care and support for the 100,000 Canadians
living with MS.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 2
The Mayor recognized the caregivers who help their loved ones get through the daily challenges
of life with MS and thanked the researchers who give hope to Canadians living with severe
forms of this disease, for which there is no treatment or cure.
The Mayor encouraged people in Vancouver to join in on learning more about MS or getting
involved in a local MS walk or bike tour, once these events resume.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to business
interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – May 12, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of May 12, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 3
2. Public Hearing – May 12, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of May 12, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Council (City Finance and Services) – May 13, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting of May 13, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Special Council (Terms of Reference of Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee) –
May 14, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (Terms of Reference of Council COVID-19
Recovery Committee) meeting of May 14, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council adopt Report 2 and Referral Reports 1 to 3, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
PRESENTATIONS
1. COVID-19 Pandemic Impacts: Financial Mitigation and Restoration of City Service
Plan
May 19, 2020
Patrice Impey, General Manager, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management, along with staff
from Financial Planning and Analysis, and staff from Business Planning and Project Support,

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 4
provided a presentation on the Report dated May 19, 2020, entitled “COVID-19 Pandemic
Impacts: Financial Mitigation and Restoration of City Service Plan”.
* * * * *
At 10:37 am, during the staff presentation, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council recess the meeting until 1 pm in order to go In Camera.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Council recessed at 10:38 am and reconvened at 1 pm, continuing with the
presentation on agenda item 1 - COVID-19 Pandemic Impacts: Financial
Mitigation and Restoration of City Service Plan.
* * * * *
Following the presentation, the City Manager, together with staff from Financial Planning and
Analysis, and staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council receive the Report dated May 19, 2020, entitled “COVID-19 Pandemic
Impacts: Financial Mitigation and Restoration of City Service Plan”, for information, and
request that the Director of Finance share this information with the Park Board, Library
Board and Police Board.
amended
CALLING THE VOTE MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council take the vote on the motion on the floor, without any further debate.
LOST (Vote No. 05899)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Wiebe abstained from the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 5
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added as B:
THAT Council direct staff to retain the planned incremental funding of $300,000
for quality core services to support improved street cleaning services which
includes litter pickup and street sweeping.
LOST (Vote No. 05900)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added as B:
THAT Council direct staff to reduce the planned incremental funding of $329,000
to support new hires for the City Manager’s Office by $95,000.
LOST (Vote No. 05901)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the following be added as B:
THAT Council ask staff to find ways to preserve work and funding for equity and
diversity issues, including the women’s equity framework, racial equity and
redress projects, reconciliation and urban Indigenous engagement, low barrier
employment, computer access in low income neighbourhoods, the Mayor’s
Overdose Task Force, sexual harassment and violence prevention, and access
without fear implementation.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05902)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
During debate on the above-noted amendment, Mayor Stewart relinquished the Chair to
Councillor Wiebe, in order to participate in debate and resumed as Chair when completed.
At 3:03 pm, during debate on the above-noted amendment, Councillor De Genova rose on point
of order under Section 8.7(f) of the Procedure By-law, noting the amendment seemed frivolous
as this work is already being done by staff. Chair Wiebe consulted with staff and ruled the
amendment in order.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 6
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be added as C:
THAT the proposed report back on "recalibration" of the Capital Budget, as set
out in the Memorandum from the General Manager of Finance, Risk and Supply
Chain Management, dated May 25, 2020, entitled “COVID-19 Pandemic
Response & Recovery: 2019-2022 Capital Plan Recalibration”, include priority
ranking of projects from the Capital Plan and Budget that Council can consider to
achieve savings of the "pay as you go" funding from the 2020 Operating Budget.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05903)
(Councillors Swanson and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillors Boyle and De Genova abstained from the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the following be added as D:
THAT Council direct staff to develop a decision making framework for prioritizing
operating budget reductions which is guided by the priorities endorsed by Council
(Budget 2020, page 24) and includes rationales for the reductions;
FURTHER THAT this framework and accompanying rationales for recommended
operating budget reductions is included in all future COVID-19 pandemic impact
and budget mitigation updates.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05904)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
Prior to the vote, Council agreed to separate the components of the motion and with the
amendments having either lost or carried, the motion as amended was put with A having
CARRIED (Vote No. 05905) (reconsidered) with Councillors Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed
and Councillor Boyle abstaining from the vote, B having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote
No. 05906), C having CARRIED (Vote No. 05907) with Councillors Swanson and Wiebe
opposed and Councillor Boyle abstaining from the vote, and D having CARRIED (Vote
No. 05908) with Councillors Boyle, Carr, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 7
* * * * *
Subsequently,
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council reconsider the vote on A.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05909)
(Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillor Boyle abstained from the vote)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT Council receive the Report dated May 19, 2020, entitled “COVID-19
Pandemic Impacts: Financial Mitigation and Restoration of City Service Plan”, for
information, and request that the Director of Finance share this information with
the Park Board, Library Board and Police Board.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05910)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Boyle abstained from the vote)
* * * * *
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council receive the Report dated May 19, 2020, entitled “COVID-19
Pandemic Impacts: Financial Mitigation and Restoration of City Service Plan”, for
information, and request that the Director of Finance share this information with
the Park Board, Library Board and Police Board.
B. THAT Council ask staff to find ways to preserve work and funding for equity and
diversity issues including the women’s equity framework, racial equity and
redress projects, reconciliation and urban Indigenous engagement, low barrier
employment, computer access in low income neighbourhoods, the Mayor’s
Overdose Task Force, sexual harassment and violence prevention, and access
without fear implementation.
C. THAT the proposed report back on "recalibration" of the Capital Budget, as set
out in the Memorandum from the General Manager of Finance, Risk and Supply
Chain Management, dated May 25, 2020, entitled “COVID-19 Pandemic
Response & Recovery: 2019-2022 Capital Plan Recalibration”, include priority
ranking of projects from the Capital Plan and Budget that Council can consider to
achieve savings of the "pay as you go" funding from the 2020 Operating Budget.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 8
D. THAT Council direct staff to develop a decision making framework for prioritizing
operating budget reductions which is guided by the priorities endorsed by Council
(Budget 2020, page 24) and includes rationales for the reductions;
FURTHER THAT this framework and accompanying rationales for recommended
operating budget reductions is included in all future COVID-19 pandemic impact
and budget mitigation updates.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. Adopt Report of the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services Meeting on
May 13, 2020
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, May 13, 2020,
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its item of business included:
1. Presentation: COVID 19 - Mobility and Public Space Responses
2. Flexible, Innovative and Expedited Patio Permitting
3. Working for More Housing Affordability in the Cambie Corridor
Items 1 to 3
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting of May 13, 2020, as contained in items 1 to 3, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05920)
REPORTS
1. Sewage and Rainwater Management Plan for Vancouver
May 13, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
A. THAT Council approve the approach outlined in the Report dated May 13, 2020,
entitled “Sewage and Rainwater Management Plan for Vancouver”, to develop a
comprehensive sewage and rainwater management plan for Vancouver, to
address pollution from sewage and urban run-off along with risks presented by

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 9
climate change, aging infrastructure and urban growth; working in collaboration
with Metro Vancouver, Park Board, First Nations, and other partners, and in close
coordination with the Vancouver Plan and key environmental policy areas.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back in 2021, with a progress update on the
development of the sewage and rainwater management plan for Vancouver,
including recommended short-term accelerated actions to reduce pollution from
sewage and polluted urban runoff.
C. THAT the Report dated May 13, 2020, entitled “Sewage and Rainwater
Management Plan for Vancouver”, be provided to the Vancouver Board of Parks
and Recreation for information.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05923) (reconsidered)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
* * * * *
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council reconsider the vote on Report 1 - Sewage and Rainwater Management
Plan for Vancouver.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05912)
(Councillor Boyle abstained from the vote)
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
A. THAT Council approve the approach outlined in the Report dated May 13, 2020,
entitled “Sewage and Rainwater Management Plan for Vancouver”, to develop a
comprehensive sewage and rainwater management plan for Vancouver, to
address pollution from sewage and urban run-off along with risks presented by
climate change, aging infrastructure and urban growth; working in collaboration
with Metro Vancouver, Park Board, First Nations, and other partners, and in close
coordination with the Vancouver Plan and key environmental policy areas.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back in 2021, with a progress update on the
development of the sewage and rainwater management plan for Vancouver,
including recommended short-term accelerated actions to reduce pollution from
sewage and polluted urban runoff.
C. THAT the Report dated May 13, 2020, entitled “Sewage and Rainwater
Management Plan for Vancouver”, be provided to the Vancouver Board of Parks
and Recreation for information.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05928)
(Councillor Boyle abstained from the vote)
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 10
2. Public Art and Chinese Canadian Museum Grant 2020, Recommended Allocations
May 19, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT Council approve grant allocations totalling $345,200 to support five
projects, as listed in Table 1 of the Report dated May 19, 2020, entitled “Public
Art and Chinese Canadian Museum Grant 2020, Recommended Allocations”,
source of funding is the 2020 Public Art Capital Budget.
B. THAT Council approve $173,511 be transferred to the Chinese Canadian
Museum Society of British Columbia. Source of funds is a grant from the
Province of BC’s Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, to the City of Vancouver
to support early implementation work for the Chinese Canadian Museum.
C. THAT Council approve the repurposing of a grant to Vancity Community
Foundation (grant balance is $57,000) to allow for additional support for
Vancouver artists to respond to loss of income due to COVID-19.
D. THAT, pursuant to Section 206 (1) (j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
the Chinese Canadian Museum and any organization listed in Appendix A of the
Report dated May 19, 2020, entitled “Public Art and Chinese Canadian Museum
Grant 2020, Recommended Allocations”, that is not otherwise a charity
registered with the Canada Revenue Agency to be contributing to the culture of
Vancouver.
E. THAT the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services (GM of
ACCS) (or their designate) be authorized to negotiate and execute agreements
to disburse the grants described in the Report dated May 19, 2020, entitled
“Public Art and Chinese Canadian Museum Grant 2020, Recommended
Allocations”, on the terms and conditions generally set out below, and on such
other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the GM of ACCS and the
Director of Legal Services.
F. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A and B above
unless and until the applicable grant agreement or letter agreement is approved
by the City in accordance with D above and executed and delivered by both the
grant recipient and the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community
Services (or their designate).
G. THAT Council thank the seven community members who served on the
assessment committee of the public art grant for their generous commitment of
time, as well as personal lived experience and professional expertise that they
contributed to the adjudication process.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A to C
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 05924)

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 11
REFERRAL REPORTS
1. CD-1 Rezoning: 486 West 26th Avenue
April 21, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT the application by Billard Architecture Inc., on behalf of 1162930 B.C. Ltd.,
the registered owner, to rezone 486 West 26th Avenue [Lot 1, Block 701, District
Lot 526, Plan 6539; PID: 010-872-698] from RS-1 (One-Family Dwelling) District
to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the permitted floor
space ratio (FSR) from 0.70 to 2.51 and the building height from 10.7 m (35 ft.) to
19.9 m (65 ft.) to permit the development of a six-storey residential building with
29 strata residential units, be referred to a Public Hearing together with:
(i) plans prepared by Billard Architecture Inc., received June 13, 2019;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated April 21, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 486 West
26th Avenue”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle, including
approval in principle of the form of development, subject to the Conditions
of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-
noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated
April 21, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 486 West 26th Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions create no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 12
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05925)
2. CD-1 Rezoning: 6825 West Boulevard
May 12, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT the application by Formwerks Architectural Inc., on behalf of FB West
Boulevard Development Ltd., to rezone 6825 West Boulevard [Lot 7, Except
Parcel A (See B47424L) Block 2 South District Lot 526 Plan 3271, PID: 013-006-
096] from RS-5 (One-Family Dwelling) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to maintain an overall density of 0.60 FSR and permit the
protection, rehabilitation and conversion of the existing building and the
development of infill residential buildings containing a total of nine dwelling units,
be referred to a Public Hearing, together with:
(i) plans prepared by Formwerks Architectural Inc., received on
March 31, 2017;
(ii) draft CD-1 By-law provisions, generally as presented in Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated May 12, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6825 West
Boulevard”; and
(iii) the recommendation of the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design
and Sustainability to approve the application in principle, including
approval in principle of the form of development, subject to the Conditions
of Approval contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary CD-1 By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-
noted report for consideration at Public Hearing.
B. THAT subject to the approval in principle of the rezoning, Council re-affirm the
existing building (the “Heritage Building”) at 6825 West Boulevard [PID: 013-006-
096; Lot 7, Except Parcel A (See B47424L) Block 2 South District Lot 526 Plan
3271], known as the “Twiss Residence” and formerly on the Vancouver Heritage
Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category, as reclassified on the Vancouver Heritage
Register in the ‘A’ evaluation category.
C. THAT the heritage designation of the Heritage Building’s exterior at 6825 West
Boulevard [PID: 013-006-096; Lot 7, Except Parcel A (See B47424L) Block 2
South District Lot 526 Plan 3271] as protected heritage property be referred to
the same Public Hearing;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 13
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
Heritage Designation By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral
Report dated May 12, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6825 West Boulevard”, for
consideration at the Public Hearing.
D. THAT, subject to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, the Subdivision By-law be
amended generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral Report dated May
12, 2020, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 6825 West Boulevard”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Subdivision By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
E. THAT A to D above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and the
expenditures of funds or incurring of costs is at the sole risk of the person
making the expenditures or incurring the costs;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any
costs incurred in fulfilling the requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05926)
3. 3350 Marine Way and 3565 Sawmill Crescent – Amendments to CD-1 (566) and
East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan
May 5, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT the application by Park Lane River District Developments Ltd. (Wesgroup
Properties) to amend CD-1 (566) By-law No. 10941 to achieve the following
changes in Area 1, be approved, in principle:
i. Amendments to allow secured market rental housing use and retail uses on
Parcels 14 and 19 (sub-area 2);
ii. Increase floor area by 1 858 sq. m. (20,000 sq. ft.) to permit a community
energy centre on Parcel 19; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 14
iii. Move the 49-space childcare centre from Parcel 19 to an alternative
location in East Fraser Lands;
FURTHER THAT the application be referred to a Public Hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated May 5, 2020, entitled “3350 Marine Way and 3565 Sawmill
Crescent – Amendments to CD-1 (566) and East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan”, for consideration at the Public Hearing.
B. THAT, and subject to approval of A above, and consequential to the application to
amend CD-1 (566) By-law No. 10941, amendments to the East Fraser Lands
Official Development Plan By-law No. 9393, generally in accordance with
Appendix B of the Referral Report dated May 5, 2020, entitled “3350 Marine Way
and 3565 Sawmill Crescent – Amendments to CD-1 (566) and East Fraser Lands
Official Development Plan”, be referred to the same Public Hearing as the
application set out in A above;
AND FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the
necessary amending by-law, generally in accordance with Appendix B of the
Referral Report dated May 5, 2020, entitled “3350 Marine Way and 3565 Sawmill
Crescent – Amendments to CD-1 (566) and East Fraser Lands Official
Development Plan”, for consideration at the Public Hearing.
C. THAT, subject to approval of A and B above, the General Manager of Planning,
Urban Design and Sustainability be instructed to bring forward the following for
Council adoption at the time of enactment of the amending by-law:
i. Updates to the Phase 1 Design Guidelines, generally as presented in
Appendix D of the Referral Report dated May 5, 2020, entitled “3350
Marine Way and 3565 Sawmill Crescent – Amendments to CD-1 (566) and
East Fraser Lands Official Development Plan”;
FURTHER THAT the above-noted report be referred to the same Public Hearing.
D. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
i. THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making
the expenditures or incurring the cost;
ii. THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and any costs
incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of rezoning are at
the sole risk of the property owner; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 15
iii. THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall not
in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05927)
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 2
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 3, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council amend the by-law listed on the agenda for this meetings as number 3 by
adding the following as section 7.11:
“Speaking to Council
7.11 All persons speaking on any matter involving a Council meeting, a Standing
Committee meeting or a Public Hearing are requested to state their full name and
whether they are a resident or non-resident of the City of Vancouver."
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05913)
(Councillor Boyle abstained from the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 05914) with Councillor Boyle opposed.
1. A By-law to amend the Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674 regarding Late Declarations
(By-law No. 12701)
2. A By-law to amend Water Works By-law No. 4848 regarding required meter service
(By-law No. 12702)

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 16
3. A By-law to amend the Procedure By-law No. 12577 regarding requests for the name
and residence of persons providing public comments (By-law No. 12703)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development - 5130 - 5170 Cambie Street
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 5130-5170 Cambie
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2018-00865, prepared by GBL Architects Inc., received by Community Services
Group, Development Services, on March 27, 2020, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05929)
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Enhancing COVID-19 Revenue Streams for Smaller Unlicensed Restaurants and
Cafes via Temporary Liquor Licensing
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. COVID-19 has placed an unprecedented strain on the finances of Vancouver
residents and business owners alike, and also on the City’s finances;
2. To help reduce financial stress for residents and business, while also helping the
City to maintain essential public services, Council recently approved a variety of
measures to protect the public and position Vancouver for an eventual recovery.
For example, on April 28, 2020, Council approved a delay in the 2020 payment
deadline for both residential and commercial property taxes which will now be on
September 30, 2020;
3. Prior to the Council meeting on April 28, 2020, Council met to declare a State of
Emergency in Vancouver in response to COVID-19 (on March 19, 2020). And on
March 23, 2020, Council voted to give City of Vancouver staff the power to
enforce orders under the City’s State of Emergency bylaw, including the ability to
prosecute breaches of emergency orders, and the ability to issue tickets,
underscoring the serious impact of this disease on the people and economy of

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 17
the city and its businesses;
https://council.vancouver.ca/20200319/documents/spec20200319min.pdf
4. It has been widely reported that Vancouver’s vibrant and diverse restaurant
sector has been particularly hard hit by COVID-19 due to closures ordered by the
province. Many are fighting for their survival and have implemented various
emergency strategies to sustain their hard hit businesses through this difficult
time;
5. Recent feedback received by Council from Vancouver’s BIAs relating to COVID-
19 and the city’s restaurant sector has included recommendations to expedite
and otherwise reduce costs and barriers for permits and licensing of patios and
takeaway food and a recommendation to allow smaller, unlicensed restaurants
and cafes – which currently fall under the City’s Limited Food Service designation
– the ability to offer liquor sales to help them survive by means of an additional
revenue stream;
6. Council will consider a motion recently brought forward by Councillor Kirby-Yung
which seeks greater flexibility on the part of the City to make it easier for
restaurants to open patios and offer open-air dining during the COVID-19 crisis,
signaling Council’s collective keen interest in securing the survival of the city’s
restaurant sector;
7. In 2013, the Province undertook the Liquor Policy Review, one of the largest
public engagements in B.C.’s history focused on bringing liquor laws into the 21st
century. The Province’s efforts to modernize liquor laws were focussed on
increasing consumer choice, creating new opportunities for businesses, and
enhancing public health and safety; https://news.gov.bc.ca/factsheets/factsheet-
modernized-liquor-laws-benefit-bc-consumers-and-businesses [news.gov.bc.ca]
8. On June 14, 2017, Council adopted policy changes affecting businesses that
serve and retail liquor in response to the Province’s modernization of B.C.’s
liquor laws. Three goals were set for the City liquor policy:
• Protect health, safety, and community livability;
• Foster creativity, community connection, and local economy; and
• Ensure regulatory framework is effective and efficient;
9. In accordance with recent feedback received by Council from Vancouver’s BIAs
relating to COVID-19 and the city’s restaurant sector, there is a large group of
Vancouver businesses that serve food (under the Limited Food Service
designation) that cannot currently sell liquor. By making appropriate and well-
considered adjustments to the City’s relevant liquor-related by-law(s), and
associated regulations, in this time of COVID-19 it would provide smaller
restaurants and cafes with the ability to offer liquor sales in addition to food and
would invariably have an immediate positive effect on their small business
revenue stream and support their survival during this time of COVID-19.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 18
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to explore by-law and
licensing options on an urgent basis, including consultation with relevant stakeholders
such as local BIAs, that would allow smaller unlicensed restaurants and cafes which
serve food, and which currently fall under the City’s Limited Food Service designation, to
sell liquor (consistent with all related provincial legislation and regulations) in order to
provide these small businesses with an additional source of revenue during this time of
COVID-19;
FURTHER THAT staff report back on an urgent basis with recommendations accordingly
to support the economic survival of this significant segment of Vancouver’s wider
restaurant and entertainment sector currently impacted by COVID-19.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the motion entitled “Enhancing COVID-19 Revenue Streams for Smaller
Unlicensed Restaurants and Cafes via Temporary Liquor Licensing” be referred to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on Wednesday,
May 27, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Allowing Responsible Alcohol Consumption in Vancouver Parks and Beaches
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. Increasing numbers of Vancouver residents, particularly renters and low or
middle income residents, are living in multi-family housing with limited access to
private outdoor space (e.g. backyards, etc.) that only a minority of more affluent
residents have the luxury to enjoy. This increased density provides more
affordability and a lower ecological footprint, and it results in more Vancouver
residents relying on public outdoor space such as parks and beaches as an
extension of their living space;
2. While we don’t have race or class-disaggregated data on local enforcement of
existing bylaws, unconscious class and race biases are commonly acknowledged
to exist, and may play a role both in what incidents enforcement officers are
called to respond to, and how they respond to those incidents. Where bylaws
such as existing restrictions on the responsible consumption of alcohol in public
parks and beaches are regularly not adhered to by a wide swath of people,
enforcement of the bylaw is at the discretion of individual police or bylaw officers,
which may result in a real or perceived inequality in the application of the rules;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 19
3. The COVID-19 Public Health Emergency has resulted in changes in nearly every
aspect of civic life, including restrictions on in-house dining in local restaurants,
pubs and breweries, restrictions on travel, and the cancellation of large public
events and festivals. These restrictions, though necessary and appropriate, have
had significant financial impacts on local businesses;
4. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Province has allowed restaurants to
sell packaged liquor products accompanying a meal purchase, for pick-up or
delivery, as a way to support local businesses and allow those businesses to
keep as many staff working as possible;
5. BC’s Provincial Health Officer, Dr. Bonnie Henry, has said that the coronavirus is
less likely to be transmitted outdoors than indoors, and has encouraged people
to go outside while keeping a safe physical distance from those outside their
immediate circle. Dr Henry has also advised British Columbians that going for
walks and spending time in parks is important for mental health;
6. As spring weather has arrived, an increasing number of Vancouver residents can
be seen socializing and eating meals outdoors, frequently while responsibly
consuming local beer or wine. While not everyone is respecting public health
directions to maintain a 2m distance from those not in your immediate circle, the
vast majority of Vancouver residents have been acting safely and responsibly;
7. Many countries and cities around the world have adopted more lenient policies,
bylaws and legislations, permitting the responsible consumption of alcohol in
public spaces. Countries such as the UK, Germany and Japan permit drinking in
public places. Some places, including Montreal, permit the drinking of alcoholic
beverages within parks but only when accompanied by a meal or a picnic. While
other places, including New South Wales, permit the public consumption of
alcohol outside of specifically designated no-drinking areas, which must be
publicly marked;
8. In September 2018, the Vancouver Park Board approved an updated Park Board
Concession Strategy which included a recommendation to “Assess the feasibility
of offering alcohol sales at select Park Board run concessions though an alcohol
sales pilot at the English Bay and Kitsilano Beach concessions, in collaboration
with the current restaurant operators”;
9. In developing this updated strategy, the Park Board completed a comprehensive
stakeholder and public engagement program, including research which showed
that “79% of survey respondents agree or strongly agree with the sale of
alcoholic beverages at concessions”;
10. In December 2018, the Vancouver Park Board unanimously approved a motion
from Commissioner Dave Demers to “conduct a feasibility study for a pilot project
that would allow the public to consume their own alcoholic beverages on select
parks and beaches.” This feasibility study was to be completed at the end of
2019, but has been slightly delayed;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 20
11. Due to COVID related travel restriction, the summer of 2020 will see fewer
visitors and festivals in Vancouver;
12. Laws at the provincial and federal levels prohibiting public intoxication, causing a
public disturbance, or consuming alcohol under-age, apply across Vancouver.
Vancouver also has local noise by-laws to limit public disturbance, and
Vancouver Parks and Beaches close to the public at 10 pm unless otherwise
posted on site; and
13. It is the Park Board’s understanding that consumption of alcoholic beverages at
parks and beaches is within the Park Board’s jurisdiction, and is currently
prohibited through the Parks Control By-laws.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT in light of equity considerations and changes related to COVID-19, Council
encourages the Vancouver Park Board to urgently amend the Parks Control By-
laws to allow responsible alcohol consumption in parks and beaches within Park
Board jurisdiction, as quickly as possible.
B. THAT, if required, Council directs city staff to collaborate with provincial partners
to clarify appropriate processes and jurisdictional concerns and report back to
Council with a recommended process for legalizing the responsible alcohol
consumption in parks and beaches as quickly as possible;
FURTHER THAT, if a report back is necessary, a copy of it be shared with the
Park Board.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion entitled “Allowing Responsible Alcohol Consumption in Vancouver
Parks and Beaches” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities meeting on Wednesday, May 27, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
3. Designating Public Space for Responsible Consumption of Alcohol
At 4:15 pm, during questions to Council Member on the above-noted motion,
Councillor De Genova rose on point a of order under Section 8.7(f) of the Procedure By-law,
noting the motion seemed frivolous as this work is already being done by staff as part of a
different motion approved by Council for pilot piazzas. The Mayor consulted with staff and ruled
the motion in order as the scope of the above-noted motion is more expansive than the previous
motion approved by Council.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 21
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
WHEREAS
1. COVID-19 public health response and mandated physical distancing has limited
the ability for Vancouverites to socialize with friends and family in their homes or
licensed public establishments;
2. In 2019, Vancouver’s elected Park Board unanimously approved “Alcohol
Consumption at Vancouver Parks and Beaches” a pilot to look at responsible
enjoyment of alcoholic beverages in designated areas of select parks/beaches;
3. On March 21, 2020, the Attorney General of British Columbia announced Liquor
and Cannabis Regulation Branch Policy Directive No: 20-05, permitting sale and
delivery of packaged liquor for off-site consumption with the purchase of a meal;1
4. On May 13, 2020, Council-approved motion “Flexible, Innovative and Expedited
Patio Permitting”, which supports the rapid deployment of patio spaces for the
use by business patrons; but patios legally and practically cannot be available or
accessible to non-patrons, equitably distributed throughout the city, or available
to all food and drink serving businesses;
5. On May 13, 2020, City of Vancouver’s Engineering Services and Finance staff
presented “Mobility + Public Life Response”, which offered recommendations to
reanimate and rebuild public life, considering public spaces for flexible uses like
eating and gathering as well as temporary closures of side streets to create
plazas;
6. Section 73 subsections (2) and (3) of the Liquor Control and Licensing Act permit
Council to pass a by-law that allows liquor consumption during specific hours and
in specific public places, or parts of them, that are under the jurisdiction of the
City;2 and
7. Section 73 subsection (4) of the Liquor Control and Licensing Act states that
without limiting subsection (2), regulations under that subsection may provide
that a by-law referred to in that subsection may not designate a specified public
place, or a specified public place for a specified period of time.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to prepare a by-law pursuant to Section 73 subsections
(2), (3) and (4) of the Liquor Control and Licensing Act, to allow for liquor
consumption in select public places that are under jurisdiction of the City, and
enables the creation of temporary and time limited spaces for responsible
1https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/employment-business-and-economic-development/business-
management/liquor-regulation-licensing/policy-directives/20-
0 5_sale_and_delivery_of_packaged_liquor_from_service_area_for_off-site_consumption.pdf
2
http://www.bclaws.ca/civix/document/id/complete/statreg/15019#section73

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 22
consumption of alcohol in public.
B. THAT Council direct staff to consult with the Vancouver Police Department,
Engineering Services and Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, staff as
well as local Business Improvement Associations and businesses (as
applicable), to recommend appropriate locations and hours for consumption of
alcohol in specified public places. Recommendations should consider, but not be
limited to:
a. Public safety;
b. Crime prevention through environmental design;
c. Access to restroom facilities;
d. Proximity to neighbours; and
e. Litter receptacles.
C. THAT Council direct staff to prepare appropriate process, signage and
messaging that conveys:
a. Hours of use;
b. Conditions of use;
c. Location boundaries;
d. Rules and recommendations for the responsible consumption of alcohol;
e. Respect for neighbours and area;
f. Location of nearest restroom facilities; and
g. Complaint mechanism.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back as soon as possible with fast-tracked
priority actions and locations as pilot projects;
FURTHER THAT in the context of improving summer weather and relaxing
provincial health orders, these pilots inform a larger report back and future
considerations for this program during and after the COVID-19 pandemic.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the motion entitled “Designating Public Space for Responsible Consumption of
Alcohol” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on Wednesday, May 27, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 23
4. Defining Social Housing Consistently and Transparently in the City of Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. Social Housing is defined by the City of Vancouver Zoning and Development
By-Law as rental housing in which at least 30 percent of the dwelling units are
occupied by households with incomes below housing income limits, as set out in
the current Housing Income Limits (HILs) table published by BC Housing; which
is owned by a non-profit corporation, non-profit co-operative association, or by or
on behalf of the City, the Province of British Columbia, or Canada; and which is
secured by a housing agreement or other legal commitment;1
2. On March 15, 2014, Social Housing in the Downtown Eastside and elsewhere
was re-defined by amendment after but not subject to the public hearing
process;2
3. The Province of BC, through BC Housing, defines Social Housing as owned by a
not-for-profit organization, a co-op or a government. Rents are subsidized
(usually by the government) making it possible for people with lower incomes to
find housing they can afford. Household income must be below certain limits in
order to be eligible;3
4. The Government of Canada and Province of British Columbia bilateral 10 year
Social Housing Agreement (June 2018) defines Social Housing as housing that is
owned and operated by non-profit housing corporations and housing co-
operatives or housing owned directly or indirectly by provincial, territorial or
municipal governments or district social services administration boards and
further distinguishes Social Housing from Affordable Rental, Affordable
Homeownership, Transitional Shelter or Other Supportive Housing, and
specifically commits support to 34,491 Social Housing Units, of which 20,427 are
low-income;4
5. For purposes of census data, Statistics Canada defines Social Housing as “non-
market rental housing” (for example, where housing allocation and rent-setting
mechanisms are not entirely dictated by the law of supply and demand); 5
6. The English language and urban studies variously define Social Housing as any
rental housing that may be owned and managed by the state, by non-profit
organizations, or by a combination of the two, usually with the aim of providing
affordable housing. Social housing is generally rationed by some form of means
testing or administrative measures of housing need; 6
7. The City of Vancouver definition of Social Housing is inconsistent with the
standard definitions employed by the Province, Government of Canada Agencies
and the English-speaking world; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 24
8. When attempting to understand housing targets or determining the merits or
public benefits of a rezoning or development application, Vancouverites may be
confused or misled by the term Social Housing as defined by the City of
Vancouver and applied to the entire project, not just the percent or portion of
non-market affordable rental or co-op housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to review the definition of Social Housing across City
regulations, and consider alternatives that refer specifically and only to non-
market affordable rental or co-op housing.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a proposed new definition of Social
Housing and an inventory of current housing that meets this new definition of
Social Housing.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the process needed to implement any
new definition of Social Housing in City regulations.
_____1_.___C_i_ty_ _o_f_ _V_a_n__c_o_u_v_e__r _-_ H__o_u_s__in_g__ V__a_n_c_o_ uver Strategy
https://council.vancouver.ca/20171128/documents/rr1appendixa.pdf
2. City of Vancouver – Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services, 2014
https://council.vancouver.ca/20140312/documents/cfsc20140312min.pdf
3. Government of British Columbia Housing Glossary
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/housing-tenancy/affordable-and-social-housing/housing-
glossary
4. CMHC-BC Social Housing Agreement 2018
http://www.bchousing.org/publications/CMHC-BC-Bilateral-Agreement-April-2018.pdf
5. Statistics Canada
https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=4610002401
6. Caves, R. W. (2004). Encyclopedia of the City. Routledge. p. 610. ISBN 9780415252256.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the motion entitled “Defining Social Housing Consistently and Transparently in the
City of Vancouver” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic
Priorities meeting on Wednesday, May 27, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 25
5. Short Term Landlords – Long Term Protections for Renters and Hotels
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Tourism in Vancouver has normally been a strong economic factor, driving:
a. Over 11 million overnight visitors annually;
b. $4.8 million in direct spending to Metro Vancouver economy annually;
c. Over 70,000 full time jobs;
d. Over 12,000 hotel rooms in the Downtown Core1; and
e. At least 5,000 Short Term Rental (STR) listings in the city;
2. The COVID-19 Pandemic has had profound impacts on Vancouver’s tourism
industries, and BC Public Health Officials suggest limited recovery for this sector
may be later in the summer if at all;
3. The collapse of the global travel industry has seen demand for Short Term
Rentals decline precipitously, with a sustained negative trajectory for future
reservations. Analysts note urban markets face significantly higher risk and
fluctuation than leisure destinations.2 As a result, Short Term Rental property
owners are reportedly seeking the stability of conventional long-term rentals over
the uncertainty of short-term tourist apartments;3
4. Independent open data research portal Inside Airbnb documents, 5,806 active
STR listings in Vancouver, including links to numerous multiple listing property
owners/managers on the Downtown Peninsula, verifiable on the Airbnb platform
(for example, Bruce: 50 listings, Rami: 32 listings, Anne: 11 listings, Brad: 10
listings, Vida: 7 listings, Charlie: 7 listings);
5. Short Term Rental data aggregator and market research portal AirDNA reports
5,180 active STR listings in the City of Vancouver, of which 73% are “entire
home rentals” and 91% are listed with Airbnb (5% VRBO, 4% on both);4
6. Recent data trends from both platforms show a number of the current Short Term
Rental stock in Vancouver are newly listed for a minimum 30-day stay;
7. So far in 2020 the City has issued 2,972 STR licenses, down from 4,201 in 2019;
8. The City of Vancouver enables, regulates, and licenses Short Term Rentals
through three separate by-laws. Goals of STR license and regulations include:
a. Protecting long-term rental housing;
b. Enforcing against commercial and illegal operators who are using long-term
rental homes as short-term rentals;
c. Providing safe and healthy accommodation options to support the tourism
industry;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 26
d. Ensuring STRs are operating with a valid business license, in principle
residences, and are allowed by landlord or strata as applicable; and
e. Helping the City to follow up on complaints and nuisance properties;
9. Despite the City’s STR by-law stipulation that licensees require strata permission,
some property and building managers’ report an inability to determine illegal
STRs because the City’s Open Data license portal redacts address information.
Uncertainty about strangers and virus transmission from infected travellers are
reportedly heightening anxiety among residents;
10. Despite the goal of STR regulations to provide safe and healthy accommodations
to support our tourism industry, there is no appropriate oversight of safe
standards in the context of COVID-19. Inconsistent cleaning and related
mitigation efforts by STR operators may subject the City to further pandemic
outbreaks and reputational damage;
11. Despite the reported trend toward longer-term rentals, the STR license stipulates
that units must be rented for less than 30 consecutive days at a time, otherwise
owners must apply for a Long Term Rental business license and pay a separate
fee;
12. Section 4 of BC’s Residential Tenancy Act (RTA) establishes that vacation or
travel accommodations are exempt the RTA. However, in arbitration and legal
precedent the undertaking of any residential tenancy is protected. Further, a fixed
term tenancy does not implicitly give cause for a landlord to end tenancy;
13. Short Term Rentals extending for Long Term Rentals may be engaged in an ad-
hoc manner inconsistent with the City’s STR bylaws or the RTA and have the
potential to exacerbate further crisis in the rental vacancy market, if and when the
tourism industry recovers;
14. Hotels are further distinct from STRs in so far as:
a. Hotels pay significantly higher property taxes as Class 6 (business, other)
relative to STRs taxed at Class 1 (residential) at a ratio of $2.93 to $6.73 per
$1000 taxable value;
b. Hotels and premises are subject to safety and health inspections by
WorkSafe BC and the BC Hotel Association (BCHA), as well as standards set
by the City of Vancouver and Vancouver Coastal Health;
c. Hotels employ a number of full- and part-time workers;
d. Hotels aren’t a threat to the long-term rental market; and
e. Hotels are purpose built and zoned for that purpose.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to review Short Term Rental licensing, fees, regulation
and safety in the context of COVID-19 and overall health of City rental vacancies
and hotel industry recovery.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 27
B. THAT Council direct staff to prepare and circulate memos to all 2019 and 2020
Short Term Rental license holders advising:
a. that the conditions of their short term rental by-law limits rentals to less than
30 consecutive days at a time; and
b. that to rent a residential property for 30 days or more at a time, a rental
property business licence is required.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the feasibility and fairness of
assessing and taxing Short Term Rentals (STR) as Class 6 Business, other,
rather than Class 1 Residential;
FURTHER THAT staff distinguish in this report any distinctions between multiple
STR listing owners or brokers and single listing individual STR owners.
D. THAT Council direct staff to create a mechanism whereby strata, building and
property manager can request and receive access to the Open Data records of
Short Term Rental licenses and locations in their properties.
E. THAT Council direct staff to work with stakeholders to amplify any cleaning
protocols and public information campaigns developed by the hospitality
accommodation industry, in consultation with the Provincial Health Officer, health
authorities and WorkSafe BC which might signal safe readiness to COVID-19
response and public health if and when tourism industry recovers;
FURTHER THAT staff consider and report back on methods for inspection or
implementation of safety and cleaning standards in Short Term Rentals (STRs)
and common areas as applicable;
AND FURTHER THAT staff report back on any reputational, legal or other liability
the City might face as licensors and regulators of STRs (and common areas by
extension and as applicable) should they be source of a COVID-19 outbreak.
F. THAT Council direct staff to identify ways to support Hotel recovery and work
with the Vancouver Economic Commission Task Force on same.
_____1_.___T_o_u_r_i_s_m__ V__a_n_c ouver Fast Facts https://www.tourismvancouver.com/media/corporate-
communications/vancouvers-tourism-industry-fast-facts/
2. Impact of the Coronavirus on Global Short-Term Rental Markets
https://www.airdna.co/blog/coronavirus-impact-on-global-short-term-rental-markets
3. The Guardian: Airbnb Slump means Europe’s cities can return to residents, says officials
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2020/may/09/airbnb-slump-europe-cities-residents-
barcelona-dublin
4. AirDNA Market Minder (retrieved May 10, 2020) https://www.airdna.co/vacation-rental-
data/app/ca/british-columbia/vancouver/overview
5. Inside Airbnb (retrieved May 10, 2020)
http://insideairbnb.com/vancouver
referred

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 28
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the motion entitled “Short Term Landlords – Long Term Protections for Renters
and Hotels” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
meeting on Wednesday, May 27, 2020, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
6. Declaration to Urge the Government of Canada to Provide Urgent Funding to
Assure the Viability of Public Transit During the COVID-19 Pandemic and to Aid
Transit Operators to Rebuild Ridership
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The situation of an unprecedented drop in public transit ridership provoked by the
COVID-19 outbreak accompanied by massive revenue losses is affecting public
transit agencies right across Canada putting in jeopardy their financial
viability and future ability to operate;
2. The Canadian Urban Transit Association (CUTA) Canada’s largest public
transport lobby, the membership of which includes most Canadian transit
agencies, has called for urgent emergency funding to address the immediate
liquidity issues of transit operators while providing financial stability while
ridership rebuilds;
3. CUTA estimates as many as 40 percent of systems may require bridge funding
over the coming months requiring some $1.2 billion to help them keep the buses
and trains running;
4. CUTA is seeking $400 million a month to keep services running as fare box and
other revenue drop by up to 100 percent;
5. CUTA notes that it will likely take some time for transit operators to rebuild
ridership to February 2020 levels during a gradual return to more normal
economic activity;
6. Without a quick infusion of funds by the Government of Canada it is impossible to
assure that the gains made over the past decade in growing the modal share of
all rides taken via collective transit will not be lost;
7. While transit is a provincial jurisdiction, only the Government of Canada has the
budgetary capacity to stabilize public transit during the COVID-19 emergency;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 29
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council endorse the Canadian Urban Transit Association’s
request to the Government of Canada for emergency funding to provide
immediate liquidity to transit operators, and ongoing funding to alleviate revenue
loss as ridership rebuilds during the pandemic.
B. THAT Vancouver City Council urge the Government of Canada to continue
funding public transit beyond the pandemic and act on funding public transit
permanently, recognizing that in addition to capital funding, stable operating
funding is needed for local transit agencies to boost ridership, maintain this
essential service, and support sustainable travel and climate response.
C. THAT a copy of this motion be sent to the Prime Minister of Canada, the Federal
Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance.
D. THAT a copy of this motion be sent to TransLink and the Mayor’s Council, as
well as the Premier and Provincial Minister of Transportation and Infrastructure
for their information.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT A be amended as follows:
• Add the words “and TransLink’s” after the word “Association”; and
• Add the words “and the Province of BC” after the word “Canada”;
FURTHER THAT B be amended as follows:
• Add the words “and the Province of BC” after the word “Canada”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05915)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05917) with Councillor Hardwick abstaining from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. The situation of an unprecedented drop in public transit ridership provoked by the
COVID-19 outbreak accompanied by massive revenue losses is affecting public
transit agencies right across Canada putting in jeopardy their financial
viability and future ability to operate;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 30
2. The Canadian Urban Transit Association (CUTA) Canada’s largest public
transport lobby, the membership of which includes most Canadian transit
agencies, has called for urgent emergency funding to address the immediate
liquidity issues of transit operators while providing financial stability while
ridership rebuilds;
3. CUTA estimates as many as 40 percent of systems may require bridge funding
over the coming months requiring some $1.2 billion to help them keep the buses
and trains running;
4. CUTA is seeking $400 million a month to keep services running as fare box and
other revenue drop by up to 100 percent;
5. CUTA notes that it will likely take some time for transit operators to rebuild
ridership to February 2020 levels during a gradual return to more normal
economic activity;
6. Without a quick infusion of funds by the Government of Canada it is impossible to
assure that the gains made over the past decade in growing the modal share of
all rides taken via collective transit will not be lost; and
7. While transit is a provincial jurisdiction, only the Government of Canada has the
budgetary capacity to stabilize public transit during the COVID-19 emergency.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council endorse the Canadian Urban Transit Association
and TransLink’s request to the Government of Canada and the Province of BC
for emergency funding to provide immediate liquidity to transit operators, and
ongoing funding to alleviate revenue loss as ridership rebuilds during the
pandemic.
B. THAT Vancouver City Council urge the Government of Canada and the Province
of BC to continue funding public transit beyond the pandemic and act on funding
public transit permanently, recognizing that in addition to capital funding, stable
operating funding is needed for local transit agencies to boost ridership, maintain
this essential service, and support sustainable travel and climate response.
C. THAT a copy of this motion be sent to the Prime Minister of Canada, the Federal
Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance.
D. THAT a copy of this motion be sent to TransLink and the Mayors' Council, as well
as the Premier and Provincial Minister of Transportation and Infrastructure for
their information.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 31
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Komagata Maru Apology and Remembrance Day Proclamation
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
2. Offering a Teensy Bit of Protection to People Who Live in Tents and Homemade
Shelters
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
3. Standing Up to the Rise in Anti-Asian Racism & Hate Crimes
Councillor Kirby-Yung submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
4. City of Vancouver Recognition for National Weeks to Observe Emergency
Services and Their Contributions to Vancouver
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
5. City of Vancouver Recognition of Italian Heritage Month and Other Civic
Observances and In Light of Physical Distancing Requirements
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
6. Establishing Fairness for Standing Committee Chairs and Agendas
Councillor Wiebe submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 32
7. A Review of the City of Vancouver $30,000 Cannabis Retail License Fee
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council Member’s
Motion.
8. Amending Policy Number ADMIN-004 ("Budgets - Operating") For Municipal
Election Years
Councillor Dominato submitted a notice of Council Member’s motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of June 9, 2020, as a Council
Member’s Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Correcting Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee Terms of Reference Regarding
Rotation of Chair
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. Council’s motion of April 14, 2020, to establish a Pandemic Response and
Recovery Working Group of Council specified that:
The structure of the Pandemic Response and Recovery Working Group shall be
a committee of the whole of Council, the Chair of which shall rotate for each
meeting amongst Council members in the same order as the established
seniority roster for Deputy Mayor; and
2. At a Special Council Meeting of May 14, 2020, Council passed Terms of
Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee that included specifics
on rotating the chair that did not fully capture the original direction regarding the
chairing of the committee:
Section 4. Structure and membership
c. The Chair of the CCRC will rotate among Council members over time and shall
follow the established roster for Deputy Mayor.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following change be made to the Council
COVID-19 Recovery Committee Terms of Reference to align the rotation of Chair with
the original motion passed by Council:
Replace:
Section 4 Structure and membership
c. The Chair of the CCRC will rotate among Council members over time, following the
roster for Deputy Mayor.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 33
With:
Section 4 Structure and membership
c. The Chair of the CCRC will rotate among Council members for each meeting in the
same order as the established seniority roster for Deputy Mayor, starting at the top of the
roster.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05918)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung abstained from the vote)
2. Support for Small Businesses Unable to Access the Assistance They Need
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. The Federal and Provincial Governments have collaborated to provide rent
assistance to small businesses through the Canada Emergency Commercial
Rent Assistance Program (CECRA);
2. The Canada Emergency Commercial Rent Assistance (CECRA) provides relief
for small businesses experiencing financial hardship due to COVID-19 by
providing unsecured, forgivable loans to eligible commercial property owners to:
a. reduce the rent owed by their impacted small business tenants;
b. meet operating expenses on commercial properties;
3. Businesses are not eligible to access CECRA unless their commercial landlords
participate in the program;
4. Applications for the CECRA opened on May 25, 2020; and
5. Half of business owners can’t make June rent without further help, 20 percent
fear eviction.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct the Mayor, on behalf of Council,
to write a letter to the Provincial Government requesting:
a. An immediate moratorium on commercial evictions immediately, retroactive to April
1st and extending to September 30th, to match the end of the CECRA program;
b. A mechanism for small businesses who qualify for CECRA to notify their Provincial
Government of landlords who decline to offer a CECRA agreement;
c. Broader eligibility criteria to include landlord structures common to the not-for-profit
sector, such as head lessees operating community hubs in public sector properties,
to ensure that not-for-profit organizations and tiered landlord structures are eligible
for the program;

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 34
d. Monitored uptake of the CECRA program, and consider mandating the agreement
for all small businesses who qualify if there isn’t significant uptake of the program;
e. Encouraging landlords and tenants to work cooperatively with regard to June rent
until the program is operational; and
f. Negotiate with the Federal Government for another tier for CECRA rent relief,
covering more small businesses which lost between 30% and 70% of revenue.
The Canadian Federation of Independent Business (CFIB): https://www.cfib-
fcei.ca/en/media/news-releases/rent-relief-major-missing-piece-small-business-survival-
options-beyond-cecra
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05919)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
* * * * *
At 4:55 pm, during discussion on the above-noted motion, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to deal with the remainder of the
agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Alternative Measures for Recycling Electronics and Flexible Packaging
Councillor Fry requested an update on alternative measures of recycling electronics and flexible
packaging, especially in the Downtown area, in light of London Drugs having shut down their
front of house zero waste services.
2. Business Licensing for Animal and Related Services
Councillor Fry requested information on what the process is in order to acquire a business
license for businesses related to animal services in the case of outstanding complaints towards
that business.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 35
3. Impacts on Zero Waste By-laws During the COVID-19 Pandemic
Councillor Kirby-Yung enquired on the impacts of the zero waste proposed implementation
by-laws, such as the ban on plastic bags, during the COVID-19 pandemic and the public being
prohibited to bring their own reusable bags to grocery stores. The City Manager noted that staff
is evaluating the impacts of COVID-19 on zero waste in the city, and continue to maintain
awareness during this time, as the restrictions caused by COVID-19 are slowly lessening with
time.
4. Addressing Safety Concerns from Residents Previously Living in Oppenheimer
Park and Being Relocated to Hotels
Councillor Kirby-Yung noted that there have been a plethora of safety concerns from residents
of Oppenheimer Park that have been relocated to hotels, and enquired what initiatives have
staff taken to address these concerns. The City Manager advised that the relocation to hotels
has been organized by BC Housing and that the hotels are operated by qualified non-profits.
The City Manager also noted that the City is working closely with BC Housing and Vancouver
Coastal Health, recognizing the significance of these safety concerns, and in partnership will
work to address these concerns. Councillor Kirby-Yung requested a memorandum on how the
City is addressing the concerns of the residents.
5. Creating Dialogue with BIAs Addressing COVID-19 Response and Recovery
Councillor Dominato enquired about the possibility to create more thoughtful dialogue between
the Mayor, the City Manager and the Vancouver Police Chief, and the 22 BIAs in order to
discuss COVID-19 response and recovery, specifically about issues of public safety, sanitation,
and safe access for business owners and residents.
6. News Conference with Muslim Organizations and Government
Councillor Swanson highlighted a letter received that described a recent act of hate crime
towards a 17 year old Muslim woman on a bus, and the mental repercussions that has caused
for the individual and the Muslim community. Councillor Swanson requested information from
staff on the possibility of organizing a news conference where representatives from Muslim
organizations and government can come together to bring awareness of hate crimes and their
repercussions, as well as to highlight the positive contributions of the Muslim community.

Council Meeting
Minutes, May 26, 2020 36
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 5:38 pm.
* * * * *