SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
May 14, 2020
A Special Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday, May 14, 2020,
at 4:00 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, for the purpose of adopting the
Terms of Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee. This Special Council
meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized by Part 14 of the Procedure By-law
and the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe, Deputy Mayor
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Tamarra Wong, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Thursday, May 14, 2020 2
1. Terms of Reference for Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council adopt the Terms of Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery
Committee.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council amend the Terms of Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery
Committee with the following amendment:
THAT 4(c) be amended by adding the phrase “and shall follow the established
roster for Deputy Mayor” to the end.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05893)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council amend the Terms of Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery
Committee with the following amendment:
THAT 4(e) be amended by striking the numbers “2-6” and replaced with the
number “6”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05894)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council amend the Terms of Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery
Committee with the following amendment:
THAT the following be added to the Terms of Reference for the Council
COVID-19 Recovery Committee:
THAT unanimous consent of all Council members be required before any
motions, recommendations or resolutions on Council or Standing
Committee meeting agendas are referred to the Council COVID-19
Recovery Committee.
lost

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Thursday, May 14, 2020 3
Prior to the amendment being seconded, the Mayor consulted with staff to confirm if the
amendment was consistent with the terms of reference.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 4:49 pm and reconvened at 4:56 pm.
* * * * *
Following the recess, the Mayor ruled that the amendment was in order; however, it would
restrict the ability of Council to refer items to the Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee unless
it received unanimous consent.
At 5 pm, the Mayor relinquished the Chair to Deputy Mayor Wiebe and did not return for the
remainder of the meeting.
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the word “unanimous” be struck and replaced with the number “2/3".
not put
The amendment to the amendment was not put, having not received a seconder. The
amendment was put and LOST (Vote No. 05895), with Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Dominato,
Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson and Wiebe opposed and Mayor Stewart absent for the
vote.
The amendments having lost and carried unanimously, the motion as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05896), with Councillors Boyle and Kirby-Yung abstaining
from the vote and Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council adopt the Terms of Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery
Committee with the following amendments:
Amended sections to read as follows:
4. Structure and membership
c. The Chair of the CCRC will rotate among Council members over time
and shall follow the established roster for Deputy Mayor.
e. The meetings of the CCRC shall be open to the public (either virtually
and/or physically), with 6 days advance public notice for each
meeting.

Special Council Meeting
Minutes, Thursday, May 14, 2020 4
Note: The adopted Terms of Reference for the Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee are
attached at the end of the Minutes.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The Special Council meeting adjourned at 5:17 pm.
* * * * *

Vancouver City Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee
Terms of Reference
1. Mandate/scope
a. The Vancouver City Council COVID-19 Recovery Committee (CCRC) will:
i. seek, share and discuss information regarding COVID-19 pandemic response and
business and community recovery planning, with a primary focus on pandemic
recovery,
ii. hear from a selection of invited experts and stakeholders on a range of COVID-19
recovery-related themes, and
iii. provide recommendations for Council decision on the COVID-19 response and on a
social, economic and fiscal COVID-19 recovery plan for the City of Vancouver, limiting
focus to recovery support mechanisms that are within the realm of the City’s
mandate and within the control of the City, via the City’s services, regulatory powers,
policies, processes and advocacy efforts.
b. The CCRC will primarily focus its consultations and discussions to COVID-19 recovery themes,
acknowledging that the City’s response effort decisions are being actively discussed and
decided upon by the City Council via regular Council and Council Committee meetings. These
consultations and discussions may also include consideration of the City’s response efforts to
mitigate the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the City’s restart planning to restart City
services as the City’s financial position allows, and the City’s rebuild planning that
contemplates process, policy and service delivery improvements over the longer term.
c. This work is intended to stimulate thinking and challenge assumptions about how the City can
help drive our business and community recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, and foster
resilience across Vancouver residents and businesses over time.
2. Alignment with the City of Vancouver COVID-19 Recovery Program
a. The CCRC will forward findings and recommendations to the City Manager in the form of a
report, and staff will in turn bring all the CCRC’s recommendations to City Council with an
analysis and recommendations for advancement or not as part of the City’s COVID-19
Business and Community Recovery Program (see Figure 1).
b. At the same time, the CCRC will have the ability to make recommendations to Council
regarding COVID-19 response or recovery on an urgent basis, via the established Council
member motion process.
PAGE 1

FIGURE 1. CITY OF VANCOUVER COVID-19 BUSINESS AND COMMUNITY RECOVERY PROGRAM
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE & ROLE OF THE VANCOUVER CITY COUNCIL COVID-19 RECOVERY COMMITTEE
NOTES TO FIGURE
1. Figure illustrates preliminary Business and Community Recovery Program governance structure, final structure
may vary somewhat.
3. Out of scope
a. The CCRC will not focus on recovery support mechanisms that are outside of the realm of the
City’s mandate and control, unless it is to advocate to other levels of government for public
policy changes and/or resources.
4. Structure and membership
a. Per the 2020-04-14 Council resolution (Appendix A), the CCRC will be comprised of all
members of Council, formed as a committee of the whole.
b. The CCRC will define up-front a limited set of core guiding questions that will frame the topics
for discussion at future meetings of the CCRC.
c. The Chair of the CCRC will rotate among Council members over time and shall follow the
established roster for Deputy Mayor.
d. The CCRC will generally meet every two weeks for two hours.
e. The meetings of the CCRC shall be open to the public (either virtually and/or physically), with
6 days advance public notice for each meeting.
PAGE 2

f. The meetings of the CCRC will be open to the public, but will not receive speakers from the
general public, with the exception of invited presentations.
CCRC-staff liaisons
a. Throughout the life of the CCRC, Councillor Adriane Carr and Councillor Lisa Dominato will
serve as the CCRC-Staff Liaisons, who will liaise with the appropriate staff in the City Clerk’s
Office and the City Manager’s Office, to ensure the work of the CCRC is appropriately aligned
to staff’s work, in particular the City’s COVID-19 Recovery Program.
5. Deliverables
a. CCRC report to City staff and Council. The CCRC will develop a report comprised of its findings
and recommendations, to be provided to the City Manager in order for recommendations to
be evaluated by staff and as appropriate, integrated into the City’s COVID-19 Business and
Community Recovery Program.
i. This report will be completed by the CCRC no later than July 31, 2020.
ii. If City Council opts to extend the term of the CCRC past July 31, 2020, any further
reports that might be developed over time will similarly by provided to the City
Manager and directed via the process described above.
b. Interim recommendations to Council. The CCRC may from time to time advance interim
recommendations.
i. These recommendations will be informed by collaborative work among the CCRC,
Council and staff, and can be advanced either via:
1. a Council member’s motion brought to City Council by the chair of the CCRC,
to be advanced via the established administrative process for Council
member motions, or
2. a staff recommendation to Council, facilitated by the CCRC-Staff Liaisons
working with staff.
ii. The CCRC-Staff Liaisons will work with staff to ensure any such interim
Recommendations align to staff work/plans and are supported by staff.
6. Rules of engagement
a. The rules of engagement set out in Appendix B shall be followed by all members of the CCRC.
7. Staffing
a. The CCRC will be supported by the following City staff:
i. Alex Popovic, Senior Manager, Strategic Business Advisory – Will serve as the primary
point of contact for the CCRC-Staff Liaisons
PAGE 3

ii. Karen Levitt, Deputy City Manager – Will:
1. provide executive oversight/guidance to the staff supporting the CCRC,
2. ensure that over time, the CCRC’s work is appropriately aligned with the
City’s COVID-19 Recovery Program work, and
3. review the CCRC reports to City staff to provide feedback from the staff’s
perspective.
iii. City Clerk’s Office – Will provide formal support to the CCRC meetings, including:
1. establishing the chairperson rotation schedule,
2. developing agendas, supported by the City Manager’s Office,
3. taking and distributing minutes,
4. scheduling invited experts and stakeholders,
5. technical logistics, and
6. ensuring all meetings and proceedings are compliant with the City Council
Procedure Bylaw and other relevant policy and regulation.
iv. Various departmental staff – May be brought in to present to or listen in on select
sessions of the CCRC.
b. City staff will not be involved in the following aspects of the CCRC’s work and proceedings:
i. The CCRC-Staff Liaisons will be responsible for leading the development of CCRC
reports to staff. City staff will review the report and provide feedback, but will not be
responsible for developing it.
8. Term
a. The CCRC will be decommissioned no later than July 31, 2020, with potential for extending
this term Council’s discretion.
PAGE 4

APPENDIX A.
ORIGINAL 2020-04-14 MOTION CREATING
THE VANCOUVER CITY COUNCIL PANDEMIC WORKING GROUP
WHEREAS
1. The COVID-19 global pandemic is having a severe social, economic and fiscal impact on the City of
Vancouver;
2. The Province of B.C. declared a state of emergency to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic and on
March 19, 2020, Vancouver City Council unanimously voted to declare a local state of emergency;
3. The City has responded quickly to advice from the Provincial Chief Medical Officer aimed at
“flattening the curve” of new COVID-19 cases in order to mitigate potentially disastrous numbers
of people contracting the virus and overwhelming our health care system. Vancouver’s Emergency
Operations Centre, headed by the Fire Chief, involves many dozens of staff in coordinating
response within the city and with provincial and federal agencies. Staff are involved in securing
space for temporary medical facilities, rooms for vulnerable people in the Downtown Eastside to
enable needed social distancing, food delivery and social assistance programs for those in need,
and public washing stations. Response to the COVID-19 pandemic is consuming a great deal of
staff time;
4. Regular Council and Standing Committee meetings were temporarily suspended to enable City
staff to focus on COVID-19 response. Electronic council meetings are now being scheduled to
continue the work of the city, however there is an expectation that such meetings be less time-
consuming in order to ease the burden on staff;
5. Council is elected by the public and has a decision-making role and obligation to represent public
interests both during the pandemic state of emergency and through the recovery period;
6. Enabling Council to regularly avail itself of expert advice, information and discussion during a time
of great uncertainty and major change will lead to more sound decisions;
7. The duration of the pandemic is unknown. Current estimates are that emergency response
measures may be needed for anywhere from several more months to one to two years;
8. Most projections are that economic, social and fiscal recovery will take years and that there will
likely not be a return to “business as usual” as we have known it. Planning for the best possible
recovery will require the leadership of Council.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council establish a Committee as per section 159 of the Vancouver
Charter, called the Pandemic Response and Recovery Working Group, the purposes of which shall be:
a. to enable Council to seek, share and discuss information regarding pandemic response and
recovery planning while minimizing the burden on city staff;
b. provide recommendations for Council decisions on the COVID-19 pandemic response and a social,
economic and fiscal COVID-19 recovery plan for the City of Vancouver;
PAGE 5

FURTHER THAT the structure of the Pandemic Response and Recovery Working Group shall be a committee
of the whole of Council, the Chair of which shall rotate for each meeting amongst Council members in the
same order as the established seniority roster for Deputy Mayor;
FURTHER THAT the rules of procedure of the Pandemic Response and Recovery Working Group shall be the
City of Vancouver’s Procedure By-law. Members of the Working Group may adopt by consensus additional
meeting ground rules that enhance collaboration and productivity;
AND FURTHER THAT the working group shall be immediately established and be time-bound to cover the
period of the COVID-19 pandemic response and recovery, but shall be discharged, as per Section 160 of the
Vancouver Charter, no later than before the first Monday after November 1 in the year of a general local
election.
PAGE 6

APPENDIX B.
VANCOUVER CITY COUNCIL COVID-19 RECOVERY COMMITTEE RULES OF ENGAGEMENT
All Council members who participate in the CCRC are expected to adhere to the following rules of
engagement. It is the chairperson’s responsibility to restate these rules and remind individuals as
appropriate.
1. Outcome-oriented
 It is the responsibility of the chair to ensure that each CCRC meeting has a specific and defined
purpose, with all participants having a clear understanding of what is being sought to accomplish
by the end of the meeting, and that all participants cooperate in advancing each meeting toward
its stated objective.
2. Productive debate
 Through the proceedings of the CCRC work, respectful discourse and debate is encouraged; no
participants should agree for the sake of social cohesion, nor should any participant personalise or
needlessly draw out points of disagreement. Participants are encouraged to try to offer a solution
if they bring up a problem or disagree with a proposal.
3. Respectful listening
 Participants are encouraged to listen to the ranges of perspectives and points of view with an open
mind, and to ask genuine questions to advance understanding of the perspective being offered at
any given time.
4. Stay on point and on time
 Participants are expected to respect the group members’ and presenters’ time, and keep
comments brief and to the point, and to avoid repeating what has already been said.
5. Stick to the schedule
 All members of the CCRC are expected to make their best efforts to contribute to remaining on
schedule, adhering to the previously-agreed agenda, and achieving the predetermined objectives
and outcomes.
6. Jointly design next steps
 In order to move forward cohesively, participants are encouraged to jointly and collaboratively
design next steps, with the chairperson leading this at any given point in time.
PAGE 7