PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
MAY 12, 2020
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, May 12, 2020, at 6:04 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by electronic
means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of
the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order No. M139.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
1. REZONING: 619-685 West Hastings Street and Heritage Designation at 675 West
Hastings Street - WITHDRAWN
2. REZONING: 631-635 Commercial Drive - WITHDRAWN
3. HERITAGE: 6103 West Boulevard – S.E.P. (Stanley Ernest Peters)
An application by the General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, was
considered as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 12, 2020 2
Summary: To add the existing building at 6103 West Boulevard, known as “S.E.P.
Block”, to the Vancouver Heritage Register in the “C” evaluation category and
to designate the façades of the existing building to secure the long-term
protection of the heritage property from inappropriate alterations and
demolition.
The General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, recommended approval.
Summary of Correspondence
One piece of correspondence in support was received since being scheduled for Public Hearing
and prior to the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, reviewed the application.
Speakers
* * * * *
Council recessed at 6:22 pm to allow time for requests to speak to be received via telephone
and reconvened at 6:27 pm.
* * * * *
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:27 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council add the existing building at 6103 West Boulevard (PID: 011-544-
830 and 011-544-864; Lots 16 and 17, Block 1, District Lot 526, Plan 4501 (the
“site”)) known as the “S.E.P. Block” (the “heritage building”) to the Vancouver
Heritage Register in the ‘C’ evaluation category.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for
enactment, pursuant to Sections 593 and 594 of the Vancouver Charter, a by-law
to designate the exterior façades on the east side, the north side and a portion of
the south side of the heritage building as protected heritage property.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 12, 2020 3
C. THAT A and B above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs in relation thereto is at the risk
of the person making the expenditure or incurring the cost; and
(ii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
restricted in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of
when they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05891)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 6:32 pm.
* * * * *