REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
APRIL 29, 2020
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, April 29, 2020, at 9:33 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the Order of the
Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency
Program Act, Ministerial Order No. M083.
PRESENT: Councillor Adriane Carr, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh*
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Vice-Chair
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 2
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Item 2, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. Presentation: COVID-19 Housing Response
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with
Dan Garrison, Assistant Director - Housing Policy & Regulation, Planning, Urban
Design & Sustainability, provided a presentation on the COVID-19 Housing Response, including
impacts of COVID-19, preventing and mitigating infection in vulnerable populations, Phase I:
Immediate Response Actions, and Phase II: Recalibrating our Housing System towards a More
Equitable and Resilient City.
Mr. Kelley and Mr. Garrison, along with the City Manager, responded to questions.
2. New Lease for Victoria Drive Community Hall - 2026 East 43rd Avenue
March 2, 2020
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize the Director of Real Estate Services to negotiate and
execute a lease (the ”Lease”) with Victoria Drive Community Hall Association
(the “Association”) as the non-profit operator and tenant for the Victoria Drive
Community Hall situated on City-owned property with a civic address of 2026
East 43rd Avenue, and legally described as: PID’s 013-586-441 and 013-586-467;
Lots 8 and 9, District Lot 719, Plan 2609 (the “Premises”, a plan of which is
included in Appendix A of the Report dated March 2, 2020, entitled “New Lease
for Victoria Drive Community Hall - 2026 East 43rd Avenue”). The Lease shall be
based on the City’s Precedent Lease for Non-profit Entities (Cultural/Social), on
terms as set out in the signed Offer to Lease attached as Appendix A of the
above-noted report (the “OTL”), and upon such other terms and conditions to the
satisfaction of the General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management,
the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director
of Legal Services;
As the rent under the Lease for the Premises will be below the applicable market
rate and includes rent-in-lieu of property taxes, A above constitutes a grant
valued at approximately $175,600 per annum, based on the first year of the
term.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 3
B. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 05834)
3. Climate Emergency Requirements for New Housing 3-Storeys and Under
March 10, 2020
* * * * *
Prior to the staff presentation, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT, following the staff presentation, the Committee hear from speakers, prior to
asking questions of staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Chris Higgins, Green Building Planner - Sustainability Group, Planning, Urban
Design & Sustainability, provided a presentation on Climate Emergency Requirements for New
Housing 3-Storeys and Under, and along with staff from Planning, Urban, Design and
Sustainability, and Development, Buildings and Licensing, responded to questions.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the recommendations.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be extended past 12 pm, in order to finish hearing from
speakers on Item 2.
CARRIED
(Councillor Swanson opposed)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:15 pm and reconvened at 2:42 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 4
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve amendments to the Building By-law, generally as
described in this report and as set out in Appendix A, to: decrease carbon
pollution and increase the energy efficiency requirements for residential buildings
3 storeys and under, including townhomes, to take effect January 1, 2022; to
move closer into alignment with the BC Energy Step Code for residential
buildings 4-6 storeys, to take effect January 1, 2021; to set a 2 tonne carbon
pollution cap for new single family and duplex dwellings 325m2+, to take effect
January 1, 2021; and to make various housekeeping amendments and
amendments to close a loophole in the current lighting alterations provisions, to
take effect July 1, 2020;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to prepare and
bring forward for enactment the by-law necessary to implement these
amendments, generally as outlined in Appendix A.
B. THAT Council approve updates to the requirements for electric vehicle charging
infrastructure in new one- and two-family dwellings and any ancillary residential
suites in the Building By-law and the Parking By-law as set out in Appendix E to
this report, to take effect January 1, 2021;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to prepare and
bring forward for enactment the by-laws necessary to implement these
amendments, generally as outlined in Appendix E.
C. THAT Council instruct staff to develop recommendations to complement the
climate and energy efficiency requirements in A above to ensure that useable
space inside a new home is not reduced as a result of the increased space
needed for zero emission mechanical equipment, and interior height is not
reduced as a result of the roof thickness required for additional insulation in
typical assemblies.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the motion be amended to add the following to the end of A:
“, except for heritage and character building renovations, and additions, that are
to be instead exempted through Alternative Compliance Measures under Section
11 of the Vancouver Building By-law;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to undertake consultation with heritage
and character house stakeholders to inform how in the future major renovations
and additions can improve energy efficiency while retaining more of the original
building integrity and to ensure retention is viable”;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 5
FUTHER THAT the motion be amended to add the following to the end of B:
“, except for heritage and character building renovations, and additions that are
to be instead exempted for these amendments under by-laws that apply to new
construction.”
withdrawn
* * * * *
During debate on the amendment, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recess for fifteen minutes.
CARRIED
(Mayor Stewart opposed)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 3:26 pm and reconvened at 3:44 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the amendment be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the motion be amended to add D as follows:
D. THAT Council direct staff to work with the Vancouver Heritage
Foundation and stakeholders to update the Bulletin 2014-007
“Conservation of Heritage Buildings and Compliance with Vancouver’s
Building By-Law”, to ensure that there is flexibility in the requirements, for
modest renovations and additions for heritage and character homes that
achieve retention goals, enabling approaches that are compatible with a
historic building.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05819)
(Councillors Boyle and Swanson abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
The Committee agreed to separate the vote on the components of the amended motion.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 6
The amendment having carried unanimously, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED,
with Councillor De Genova opposed to A and C (Vote No. 05821), and Councillor Swanson
abstaining from D (Vote No. 05824). Councillor Bligh was absent for the votes.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve amendments to the Building By-law, generally as
described in the Report dated March 10, 2020, entitled “Climate Emergency
Requirements for New Housing 3-Storeys and Under”, and as set out in
Appendix A of the same report, to: decrease carbon pollution and increase the
energy efficiency requirements for residential buildings 3 storeys and under,
including townhomes, to take effect January 1, 2022; to move closer into
alignment with the BC Energy Step Code for residential buildings 4-6 storeys, to
take effect January 1, 2021; to set a 2 tonne carbon pollution cap for new single
family and duplex dwellings 325m2+, to take effect January 1, 2021; and to make
various housekeeping amendments and amendments to close a loophole in the
current lighting alterations provisions, to take effect July 1, 2020;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to prepare and
bring forward for enactment the by-law necessary to implement these
amendments, generally as outlined in Appendix A of the above-noted report.
B. THAT Council approve updates to the requirements for electric vehicle charging
infrastructure in new one- and two-family dwellings and any ancillary residential
suites in the Building By-law and the Parking By-law as set out in Appendix E of
the Report dated March 10, 2020, entitled “Climate Emergency Requirements for
New Housing 3-Storeys and Under”, to take effect January 1, 2021;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to prepare and
bring forward for enactment the by-laws necessary to implement these
amendments, generally as outlined in Appendix E of the above-noted report.
C. THAT Council instruct staff to develop recommendations to complement the
climate and energy efficiency requirements in A above to ensure that useable
space inside a new home is not reduced as a result of the increased space
needed for zero emission mechanical equipment, and interior height is not
reduced as a result of the roof thickness required for additional insulation in
typical assemblies.
D. THAT Council direct staff to work with the Vancouver Heritage Foundation and
stakeholders to update the Bulletin 2014-007 “Conservation of Heritage Buildings
and Compliance with Vancouver’s Building By-Law”, to ensure that there is
flexibility in the requirements, for modest renovations and additions for heritage
and character homes that achieve retention goals, enabling approaches that are
compatible with a historic building.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 7
4. Original Low Carbon Rezoning Condition for Occupancy of Children’s and
Women’s Hospital
April 7, 2020
Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability staff responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council accept the reductions in carbon pollution achieved and anticipated
through projects underway at Children’s and Women’s Health Centre, Vancouver
General Hospital and other healthcare facilities in Vancouver, as presented in
Appendix A of the Report dated April 7, 2020, entitled “Original Low Carbon
Rezoning Condition for Occupancy of Children’s and Women’s Hospital”,
recognizing the challenges that made the original planned construction of a
stand-alone low-carbon heat plant infeasible, as fulfilling the intent of the ‘Low-
Carbon Heat Plant’ condition of approval of the 2012 rezoning of 4500 Oak Street
(Children’s and Women’s Health Centre of British Columbia);
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to revise or
discharge any legal agreements resulting from the original rezoning condition of
the Children’s and Women’s Health Centre.
B. THAT Council direct staff to work with the Provincial Health Services Authority,
and other organizations as may be appropriate, to include deep carbon reduction
options within future business case development and energy planning activities
for the Children’s and Women’s Health Centre.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05825)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
5. Ensuring All Vancouver Residents Can Comply With Public Health Guidance
At the Council meeting on April 28, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 29, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers.
The Committee heard from 15 speakers in support of the recommendations.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 8
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee finish hearing speakers on Item 5, prior to recessing for the dinner
break.
CARRIED
(Councillor Fry opposed)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 6 pm and reconvened at 7 pm.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. COVID-19 is an unprecedented public health emergency;
2. Dr. Bonnie Henry, the Provincial Health Officer, has directed British Columbians
to practice physical distancing and to “stay at home as much as possible” in
order to slow the spread of COVID-19;
3. The City’s 2019 Homeless Count identified 2,223 residents as homeless, and
these residents will likely be unable to follow Provincial health directives without
additional assistance because they have no homes;
4. Mayor Kennedy Stewart has called upon the Provincial and Federal governments
to provide “additional shelter capacity/temporary housing for up to 3,000 people
currently unable to self-isolate”;
5. The Provincial Government and Provincial agencies, including BC Housing and
Emergency Management BC, have significantly more flexibility in obtaining
resources and, therefore, are better positioned than the City to address the
housing needs of City residents during the COVID-19 crisis;
6. To date, the Provincial Government and Provincial agencies have not secured
enough housing to allow for Vancouver’s homeless population to practice
appropriate physical distancing and self-isolation;
7. There have been numerous COVID-19 outbreaks in congregate settings like
prisons and long term care facilities;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 9
8. Shelters are congregate settings where people have even less chance to self-
isolate than people in prisons and nursing homes because they do not have
private rooms or even cells with toilets;
9. There have been COVID-19 outbreaks in shelters in the US with large numbers
of people testing positive even when they have few if any symptoms;
10. The continued use of shelters as spaces for people who are homeless increases
risk of COVID-19 transmission among people who are and are not homeless;
11. Western Aboriginal Harm Reduction has a list of 92 people living in Oppenheimer
Park who want to move indoors; and
12. The BC Hotel Association estimates that 60 per cent of hotels in British Columbia
have closed due to the COVID-19 crisis, indicating that there are enough empty
rooms to address the isolation needs of City of Vancouver residents.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council urge the Province of British Columbia to acquire hotel rooms as
soon as possible to offer to all unhoused people in Vancouver so they have the
same opportunity for self-isolation as people with homes.
B. THAT, if the Province is unwilling to take this action, the City itself will acquire
hotel rooms for unhoused people and work with BC Housing and Coastal Health
to provide supports so unhoused people have the same opportunity for self-
isolation as people with homes.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion be struck and substituted with the following:
A. THAT Council publicly express appreciation for the Provincial Government and
BC Housing’s ongoing work to provide housing and other supports for unhoused
and systemically vulnerable Vancouver residents during COVID-19.
B. THAT Council direct the Mayor to continue advocating on behalf of unhoused and
systemically vulnerable Vancouver residents, including advocating strongly that
the Province of British Columbia acquire enough hotel rooms, apartments, or
other housing as soon as possible, to offer to all unhoused people in Vancouver
so they have the same opportunity for self-isolation as people with homes.
C. THAT Council direct staff to work with provincial and federal partners to support
an urgent expansion of permanent social housing in all neighbourhoods of
Vancouver, including by contributing city-owned land, so that residents

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 10
temporarily housed during COVID-19 are not moved back onto the street when
physical distancing requirements are relaxed.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05827)
The amendment having carried unanimously, the amended motion was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 05828), with Councillor Swanson opposed.
6. Private Single Room Occupancy Cleaning Cost Recovery
At the Council meeting on April 28, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 29, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in opposition to the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. On March 19, 2020, Vancouver City Council declared a State of Emergency in
order to address the local impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic;
2. City of Vancouver By-law No. 5462 “Standards of Maintenance"1 includes
requirements to keep lodging accommodations in clean condition. Offences of a
continuing nature against this By-law, are punishable with fines of $250-$10,000
per day;
Section 21.0 “Lodging Owners”
Every lodging house owner shall at all times keep or maintain the lodging
house:
(a) in a thoroughly clean and sanitary condition, including windows and
lightwells.
(b) free of pests, including insects and rodents.
(c) fixtures and appliances in good working order and repair.
(d) floors, stairs, doors, walls and windows in good working order and
repair;
(e) heating system in good working order and repair; and
(f) sinks, toilets and bathing fixtures in good working order and repair.
Section 21.19: “The City Building Inspector may issue an order to an
owner, a lodging house operator, a lodging house keeper or a lodger to
bring about compliance with the provisions of this By-law.
1 City of Vancouver “Standards of Maintenance By-law No. 5462” https://bylaws.vancouver.ca/5462c.PDF

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 11
3. Out of necessity to stop the spread of COVID-19, cleaners were contracted to
clean common spaces and private rooms in Single Room Accommodations
(SRAs), including privately owned SRAs at no cost to the Single Room
Accommodation (SRA) owners;
4. The City of Vancouver does not typically fund the cleaning of privately owned
residences or establishments and the Standards of Maintenance By-law requires
cleaning at the expense of the owner:
Section 23.8 “Notwithstanding any other provisions of this By-law, where
any building or land does not comply with standards set out in this By-law,
the Council may, by resolution, order that failure to remedy any default
specified in such order within 60 days after service of such order, will
result in the work being carried out by the City at the expense of the
owner.”
23.10 “All costs and expenses of the City, as a consequence of work
carried out pursuant to Subsection 23.9, shall be paid by the owner or
owner under agreement of the property within 30 days from the date of a
statement of account from the City.”
23.11 "Any amount which remains unpaid after the time limited in
Subsection 23.10 hereof, shall, after certification by the Director of
Finance, be inserted in the Real Property Tax Roll as a charge with
respect to the parcel on which the work was carried out.”
23.12 “Any order or notice referred to in Subsection 23.2, 23.8 or 23.8A
hereof shall be sufficiently served if sent by registered mail to the owner
or posted on the affected premises.”
23.13 “Before any matter is dealt with by Council pursuant to Subsection
23.8 hereof, the City Clerk shall notify the owner of the building or land
that the Council will be considering the question of a violation of this By-
law. Such notice shall specify the nature of the violations and shall specify
the time and place at which the owner may appear before the Council to
make representations in respect of the matters allege.”
5. There is no specific reference or requirements for room cleaning, or common use
2
cleaning, health and safety Single Room Accommodation By-law No. 8733;
6. Access to the “Building Owners’ Manual for Buildings in Vancouver’s Downtown
Eastside” published in 2010 can currently be found on the Worksafe BC website
and states “your responsibility as a Building Owner is to maintain a healthy, safe
2 City of Vancouver “Single Room Accommodation By-Law No. 8733
https://bylaws.vancouver.ca/8733c.PDF

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 12
and clean environment for your tenants and staff in an effort to minimize risk of
3
harm to them;”
7. SRAs are known to house and be frequented by the most vulnerable and
marginalized people, who are at high risk for infection of COVID-19, and
statistically face the most devastating medical complications from the
coronavirus, including death;
4
8. The Single Room Occupancy (SRO) Revitalization Action Plan presented to
Council in November 2017, states “the working group learned that enforcement
tools can work alongside reinvestment strategies to exercise pressure on private
owners and reposition their buildings into more effective management. Additional
enforcement tools that both mitigate loss of affordability and improve
maintenance and management standards were identified”, including:
• Liens on title for noncompliance with orders; and
• Use of civil forfeiture or expropriation of building with ongoing
non-compliance;
9. As of April 8, 2020, the City of Vancouver projected a budget shortfall of
approximately $61 million, resulting from widespread economic impact and
measures to combat COVID-19;
10. March 23, 2020, the Mayor called a Special Council meeting to amend By-law
No. 12661 and enact By-law No. 9370, to enhance enforcement, fines and
ticketing for the public and businesses that did not/could not comply with the
physical /social distancing standards recommended by the Provincial Health
Authority;
11. In April 2020, the City of Vancouver contracted cleaning services for SRA
Buildings in common areas and private living spaces, in some cases, up to three
times each day. BC Housing agreed to fund the first two weeks of cleaning
services, at the request of the city. There is no guarantee BC Housing will
continue to provide funding for this expense;
12. Contributions from Federal and Provincial governments amount to over 96
percent of BC Housing’s revenue “BC Housing is forecasting to receive total
5
provincial contributions of $1.370 billion”;
3 WorkSafe BC “Building Owners’ Manual for buildings in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside”
https://www.worksafebc.com/en/resources/health-safety/books-guides/building-owners-manual-for-sro-
buildings-in-vancouvers-downtown-eastside?lang=en
4 City of Vancouver | Housing Vancouver | Single Room Occupancy (SRO) Revitalization Plan
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/sro-revitalization-action-plan.pdf
5 BC Housing | BC Housing’s Three-Year Service Plan 2020/2021-2022/2023
https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=2ahUKEwjM4eDlqufoAhUU

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 13
13. The hospitality industry may operate if they can comply with the social/physical
distancing recommended by the Provincial Health Authority and Vancouver
Coastal Health Authority. Examples include: Restaurants offering take-out
services only, and hotels. These establishments are responsible for cleaning
establishments at their own cost, or they may face fines of up to $50,000
Individuals not complying with social/physical distancing requirements face fines
of $1,000;
14. There is no mention of measures to amend by-laws and enforcement to hold
private SRA building owners accountable for appropriate cleaning in the interest
of health and safety;
15. On April 12, 2020, the Mayor’s Office released a statement expressing concern
for the City of Vancouver’s ability to balance future budgets and possible
bankruptcy, due to an inability to collect on property taxes by due dates; and
16. The City of Vancouver cannot afford to cover the costs of private SRA building
owners.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to consider revisions to the Single Room
Accommodation By-law No. 8733 to include:
(i) Specific reference to the Standards of Maintenance By-law
No. 5462 and any other City of Vancouver by-laws that apply to
Single Room Accommodation Building Owners that include
standards for maintenance, cleanliness, health and safety; and
(ii) Explicit information addressing non-compliance, including orders,
fines and amounts.
B. THAT Council direct staff to examine the possibility of actions that may be taken,
including liens on title for non-compliance with orders and outstanding fines.
C. THAT Council direct staff to increase enforcement of City of Vancouver by-laws,
in the interest of maintaining standards that meet Vancouver Coastal Health and
the Provincial Health Authority standards for cleanliness, health and safety, at the
expense of the owner.
D. THAT Council direct staff to consider if by-laws or powers enacted by the City of
Vancouver and the province, in the current state of emergency, can be leveraged
to require private Single Room Accommodation (SRA) Building owners to
u54KHfHqBKwQFjAAegQIAhAB&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.bchousing.org%2Fpublications%2Fservice-
plan-2020-23.pdf&usg=AOvVaw3ZQLEEbpsGHZXGK83yhk2t

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 14
reimburse the Province of BC for any cleaning costs paid for in privately owned
SRA Buildings.
E. THAT Council direct staff to share this resolution with BC Housing and request
assistance in reporting enforceable by-law offences pertaining to cleanliness,
health and safety in Single Room Accommodation buildings in the City of
Vancouver.
F. THAT Council direct staff to prepare a memo summarizing the enforcement of
City of Vancouver by-laws in privately owned Single Room Accommodation
Buildings, including:
(i) Information and data for fines, orders and actions taken to
address cleanliness, health, and safety;
(ii) Any unpaid fines or outstanding orders; and
(iii) Information on current enforcement measures.
lost
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT C of the motion be amended by inserting the words “to consider and explore
increasing” between the words “staff” and “enforcement”, and inserting the words “as
soon as possible”, between the words “by-laws” and “in”, to read as follows:
C. THAT Council direct staff to consider and explore increasing enforcement of City
of Vancouver by-laws as soon as possible, in the interest of maintaining
standards that meet Vancouver Coastal Health and the Provincial Health
Authority standards for cleanliness, health and safety, at the expense of the
owner.
FURTHER THAT the motion be amended to add G and H as follows:
G. THAT Council direct staff to work with tenants in the downtown eastside to find a
safe, secure and easy way to report infractions or non-compliance of building
owners to uphold the Standards of Maintenance By-law No. 5462 .
H. THAT Council direct staff to examine ways to protect the inventory of low-income
Single Room Accommodation (SRA) rental units located in privately owned SRA
buildings and consider any further actions the City of Vancouver can take to
deter the ability of landlords to convert units or charge rents above income
assistance, unless the housing units are subsidized by funding provided by the
senior levels of government, non-profit housing operators or charitable
organizations.
LOST (Vote No. 05829)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 15
The amendment having lost, the motion was put and LOST (Vote No. 05830) with Councillors
Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed.
7. Strengthening Representative Democratic Practices in Vancouver
At the Council meeting on April 28, 2020, Council referred the following motion to the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 29, 2020, in order to hear from
speakers.
The Committee heard from six speakers in support of, and one speaker opposed to, the
recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. In democratic theory, representatives are elected to represent the people within
jurisdictional boundaries. So, representatives must know what their constituents
think in order to best represent the ‘will of the people’;
2. Under the laws and traditions of Canada, the fundamental principles of
representative democracy apply to the City of Vancouver, its elected Council,
and the various legislative processes conducted by Council and the City on
behalf of the city’s constituents and within the City’s jurisdictional and physical
boundaries;
3. Municipal councils in British Columbia typically have full discretion to set policies,
adopt bylaws, and establish direction for their communities, in accordance with
legislation and other legal rules, and they do so within the established principles
and traditions of representative democracy and consistent with the Canadian
democratic tradition;6
4. The Vancouver Charter lays out the boundaries of the city, as well as the
electoral process by which our representatives are elected, and responsibilities to
the inhabitants of the City.
5. In a representative democracy, all eligible citizens have the right to participate,
either directly or indirectly, in making the decisions that affect them, most
6
The City of Vancouver, as with other municipalities in British Columbia, is empowered to control land use and
development within the city through a variety of processes and tools, and is also responsible for providing essential
municipal infrastructure and services including drinking water, roads, fire protection, and sewage collection and
treatment.
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/local-governments/facts-
framework/systems/municipalities?keyword=municipal

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 16
commonly by voting in an election and/or by making their views known to their
elected officials on issues of importance to them and their community, for
example, at Public Hearings of Council;7
6. In order to ensure that constituent and community feedback is fully, fairly, and
transparently articulated and considered, it is incumbent in a representative
democracy to ensure that the will of the people, as expressed by its constituents
through the various feedback mechanisms and processes in place, is accurately
and fairly presented;
7. To be effective stewards of the City and best represent constituents, members of
a City Council must receive and consider feedback representing a wide range of
views obtained through a variety of means and processes. Specifically:
● in person (e.g. at public hearings and from delegations to Council)
● on paper (e.g. letters, petitions)
● online (e.g. emails, online petitions, social media)
8. Public Hearings are a quasi-judicial process of Council where, at the start of a
public hearing, the City Clerk reads a summary of the application under
consideration along with a summary of correspondence received. For example,
the Clerk’s opening statement variously takes the form of, “The following
correspondence has been received since referral to public hearing and prior to
the close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments: x pieces of
correspondence in support and x pieces of correspondence in opposition. This
represents all correspondence up to 5:00 PM today.”;
9. The summary of correspondence presented at public hearings and for other
Council processes is intended to quantify and convey the level support or
opposition to a matter under consideration. Council is reliant on the quality and
reliability of the summary information to ensure that the decision making process
is sound and sufficiently representative in its scope;
7
Sections 22 through 24 of the Vancouver Charter, under Division 5 (Electors), specifies the eligibility criteria for
“resident electors” (i.e., those who live in the city) and “non-resident property electors” (i.e., the registered owner of
real property in the city) to vote in a City of Vancouver election, all of whom must be, among other requirements and
restrictions, 18 years of age or older on the day of registration or on the general voting day for the election, a
Canadian citizen, and a resident of British Columbia for at least 6 months immediately before the day of registration
or on the general voting day for the election.
Section 38 of the Vancouver Charter under Division 5 (Qualifications for Office) lays out the requirements that must
be met for holding office on Council or Park Board and states, among other criteria, that the person “must be an
individual who is, or who will be on general voting day for the election, 18 years of age or older,” a Canadian citizen,
and “must have been a resident of British Columbia, as determined in accordance with section 25 [of the Charter], for
at least 6 months immediately before the relevant time.”

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 17
10. Those persons wishing to address Vancouver City Council on a matter, either as
a delegation to Council or at a Public Hearing, including through written
correspondence, are currently not required to indicate or state where they live in
the city, what their home address may be, or whether they may in fact reside in
another municipality altogether;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT individuals providing public feedback related to
items of Council meetings, Standing Committees, and Public Hearings be requested to
state the following:
● Their full name;
● Whether they are a resident of the City of Vancouver, or are non-resident, or if
they are homeless; and
FURTHER THAT unregistered migrant and refugee residents are exempt from this
policy.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the motion be struck and substituted with the following:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct City staff to prepare and
bring back to Council for consideration, at the next possible Council meeting
including required notice (May 26, 2020), amendments to the Procedure By-law
that authorize individuals providing public comments, as speaker, by email, or on
paper, related to items of Council meetings, Standing Committees, and Public
Hearings be requested to state the following:
● Their full name;
● Whether they are a resident of the City of Vancouver, or are non-resident.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05831)
* * * * *
During debate on the amended motion, Councillor Bligh rose on a point or order to ask the Chair
for a ruling on whether Councillor De Genova’s comments were frivolous. The Chair ruled the
comments frivolous, and Councillor De Genova stopped the comments.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 18
* * * * *
Following the Chair’s ruling, it was
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
Following debate, the amended motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 05832), with
Councillors Boyle and Wiebe opposed.
The Committee adjourned at 10:06 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
APRIL 29, 2020
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, April 29, 2020, at
10:07 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee. This Council meeting was convened by electronic means as authorized under the
Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General of the Province of British Columbia –
Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order No. M083.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Jean Swanson
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Terri Burke, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
April 29, 2020
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Presentation: COVID-19 Housing Response
2. New Lease for Victoria Drive Community Hall - 2026 East 43rd Avenue
3. Climate Emergency Requirements for New Housing 3-Storeys and Under
4. Original Low Carbon Rezoning Condition for Occupancy of Children’s and
Women’s Hospital
5. Ensuring All Vancouver Residents Can Comply With Public Health Guidance
6. Single Room Occupancy Cleaning Cost Recovery
7. Strengthening Representative Democratic Practices in the City of Vancouver

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, April 29, 2020 2
Items 1 to 7
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of April 29, 2020, as contained in items 1 to 7, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
ITEM 2 BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 10:09 pm.
* * * * *