COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 14, 2020
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, April 14, 2020, at
9:32 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Council meeting was convened by
electronic means as authorized under the Order of the Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor
General of the Province of British Columbia – Emergency Program Act, Ministerial Order
No. M083.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 9:39 am and reconvened at 10:49 am.
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to business
interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Special Council (To transact the items listed on the agenda) – March 31, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council (To transact the items listed on the agenda)
meeting of March 31, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
None
COMMUNICATIONS
1. Changes to 2020 Council Meetings Schedule
Sadhu Johnston, City Manager and Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk, responded to
questions.

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 3
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council move the Public Hearing from Tuesday, April 28, 2020, to
Tuesday, May 5, 2020, at 1 pm;
FURTHER THAT the Public Hearing on April 30, 2020, be cancelled;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to plan a meeting where Council may participate in
a “test” or “trial” public hearing meeting with the technology staff proposed for virtual
public hearings;
FURTHER THAT this “trial” public hearing be modelled on the proposed electronic public
hearing process and include testing the technology for public participation in a virtual
public hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT Council have the opportunity to provide feedback before the
process is finalized, prior to scheduling future dates for virtual public hearings.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT “AND FURTHER THAT” be amended by striking the phrase “prior to scheduling
future dates for virtual public hearings”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05765)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT “THAT” be amended by striking the number “1” and inserting the number “6”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05766)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr and Mayor Stewart opposed)
* * * * *
At 11:59 am, it was
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council extend the meeting past noon in order to complete Communication 1 -
Changes to 2020 Council Meetings Schedule.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 4
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT “THAT” and the first “FURTHER THAT” in the motion be struck and substituted
with the following:
THAT Council cancel all Public Hearing dates in April and May or until Provincial
Government restrictions on public assembly are lifted;
FURTHER THAT if the emergency restrictions continue past May 31, 2020,
Council may reconsider how to proceed further.
not put
The motion was not put, having not received a seconder.
The amendments having either been carried or not put, the motion as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 05767) with Councillor Hardwick opposed.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council move the Public Hearing from Tuesday, April 28, 2020, to Tuesday,
May 5, 2020 at 6 pm;
FURTHER THAT the Public Hearing on April 30, 2020, be cancelled;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to plan a meeting where Council may participate in
a “test” or “trial” public hearing meeting with the technology staff proposed for virtual
public hearings;
FURTHER THAT this “trial” public hearing be modelled on the proposed electronic public
hearing process and include testing the technology for public participation in a virtual
public hearing;
AND FURTHER THAT Council have the opportunity to provide feedback before the
process is finalized.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12:11 pm and reconvened 3:13 pm.
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 5
2. 2020 LMLGA Submission Adjustments
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Communication 2 - 2020 LMLGA Submission Adjustments, be referred to the
Council meeting on April 28, 2020.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05768)
(Councillor Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillors Bligh and Boyle abstained from the vote)
REPORTS
1. COVID-19 Pandemic Impacts: Financial Update and Short-Term Actions
April 6, 2020
Patrice Impey, General Manager, Finance, Risk and Supply Chain Management and Colin
Knight, Director, City-wide Financial Planning and Analysis, provided a presentation on the
above-noted report, which provided preliminary information on the financial implications of the
COVID-19 pandemic to the City and also provided recommendations on upcoming property tax
notices and related actions the City can take to support businesses and residents.
Ms. Impey and Mr. Knight, along with Sadhu Johnston, City Manager, responded to questions.
Council heard from one speaker with concerns regarding the Property Endowment Fund.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT Council receive the Report dated April 6, 2020, entitled “COVID-19
Pandemic Impacts: Financial Update and Short-Term Actions”, for Information,
and request that the Director of Finance share this information with the Park
Board, Library Board and Police Board.
B. THAT, in response to the unique circumstances created by the COVID-19
pandemic, Council approve, in principle, the amendment to Tax Penalty By-law
No. 9284, generally as outlined in Appendix A of the Report dated April 6, 2020,
entitled “COVID-19 Pandemic Impacts: Financial Update and Short-Term
Actions”, to adjust the remittance due date for the July main property tax notices
from July 3, 2020 to September 2, 2020.
C. THAT, subject to B above being approved, Council request the Province to delay
the remittance due date for other taxing authorities’ requisitions to after
September 2, 2020, including the Provincial School Taxes, Translink, Metro
Vancouver, BC Assessment, and Municipal Finance Authority BC, such that the
City does not have to prioritize the use of City working capital, reserves and/or
borrowing to pay senior and regional government and agencies before actual tax
collection.

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 6
D. THAT Council endorse the following requests submitted by Metro Vancouver and
Union of BC Municipalities to the Province to support local governments during
the COVID-19 crisis:
i. Expand the existing Provincial Property Tax Deferment program to
support property owners who are experiencing financial difficulties,
including residents, businesses and non-profit agencies, thereby lowering
the delinquency rate for municipalities;
ii. Provide financial backstop to provincial and regional taxing authorities for
delinquent payments on property taxes and utility fees, as the City does
not have the financial capacity to keep them whole should delinquency
rate increase; and
iii. Provide direct operating grants to cover the City’s significant revenue
losses such that the City can continue to provide public safety and other
essential services while being prepared for the recovery of the economy.
E. THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment a by-law
generally in accordance with B above.
F. THAT, in response to the unique circumstances created by the COVID-19
pandemic including uncertainty about the ability to secure Provincial operating
grants, decreased revenues the City is currently experiencing on a weekly basis,
and the potential for property tax delinquency due to economic hardship, Council
direct staff to prepare and bring forward to Council by as soon as possible by
May 2020 (in public or in camera as necessary), options for consideration that
will enable the City of Vancouver to achieve a balanced 2020 Operating Budget,
and mitigate anticipated reduced revenue and include the following:
i. that such options take into account information from the Federal
Government that COVID-19 related restrictions will continue at least
through to the end of Summer, and that some level of COVID-19
response measures are likely to be in place for the remainder of 2020.
ii. that such options identify the baseline costs to support sewers, sanitation,
garbage pickup and recycling, maintenance, and reasonable level of
public safety for fire and police, as well as identify a sufficient level of
resourcing in areas that will support economic survival and recovery such
as permits and licensing to enable businesses to get licenses and
industry projects to move forward, or recognize the economic contribution
of sectors such as the arts sector and small business, and report to
Council if refocusing to those core areas is sufficient to meet the City’s
anticipated revenue gap, and whether there is room to deliver other
services in addition to support Council goals.

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 7
iii. that the report include and provide Council with a summary of Capital
Projects including funding source identification of restricted or unrestricted
funds, and which projects impact the Operating Budget through debt
servicing.
amended / referred
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete the business on the
agenda;
FURTHER THAT Council unanimously agree to extend the meeting.
withdrawn
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council extend the meeting past 5 pm in order to complete Report 1 - COVID-19
Pandemic Impacts: Financial Update and Short-Term Actions, before the dinner break.
LOST
(Councillors Boyle, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 5:04 pm and reconvened at 6:13 pm.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 6:25 pm reconvened at 6:39 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT F ii be struck.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05771)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato, De Genova, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed)

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 8
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council refer B and C to the Council meeting on April 28, 2020.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT C be struck and E inserted.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05572)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato, Fry, and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
The amendment to the referral having carried, the amended referral was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 05773) with Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick and Kirby-Yung
opposed.
The amendment and referral having carried, the amended motion was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05574).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council receive the Report dated April 6, 2020, entitled “COVID-19
Pandemic Impacts: Financial Update and Short-Term Actions”, for Information,
and request that the Director of Finance share this information with the Park
Board, Library Board and Police Board.
B. THAT Council request the Province to delay the remittance due date for other
taxing authorities’ requisitions to after September 2, 2020, including the
Provincial School Taxes, Translink, Metro Vancouver, BC Assessment, and
Municipal Finance Authority BC, such that the City does not have to prioritize the
use of City working capital, reserves and/or borrowing to pay senior and regional
government and agencies before actual tax collection.
C. THAT Council endorse the following requests submitted by Metro Vancouver and
Union of BC Municipalities to the Province to support local governments during
the COVID-19 crisis:
i. Expand the existing Provincial Property Tax Deferment program to
support property owners who are experiencing financial difficulties,
including residents, businesses and non-profit agencies, thereby lowering
the delinquency rate for municipalities;
ii. Provide financial backstop to provincial and regional taxing authorities for
delinquent payments on property taxes and utility fees, as the City does
not have the financial capacity to keep them whole should delinquency
rate increase; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 9
iii. Provide direct operating grants to cover the City’s significant revenue
losses such that the City can continue to provide public safety and other
essential services while being prepared for the recovery of the economy.
D. THAT, in response to the unique circumstances created by the COVID-19
pandemic including uncertainty about the ability to secure Provincial operating
grants, decreased revenues the City is currently experiencing on a weekly basis,
and the potential for property tax delinquency due to economic hardship, Council
direct staff to prepare and bring forward to Council by as soon as possible by
May 2020 (in public or in camera as necessary), options for consideration that
will enable the City of Vancouver to achieve a balanced 2020 Operating Budget,
and mitigate anticipated reduced revenue and include the following:
i. that such options take into account information from the Federal
Government that COVID-19 related restrictions will continue at least
through to the end of Summer, and that some level of COVID-19
response measures are likely to be in place for the remainder of 2020.
ii. that the report include and provide Council with a summary of Capital
Projects including funding source identification of restricted or unrestricted
funds, and which projects impact the Operating Budget through debt
servicing.
E. THAT the following be referred to the Council meeting on April 28, 2020:
THAT, in response to the unique circumstances created by the COVID-19
pandemic, Council approve, in principle, the amendment to Tax Penalty
By-law No. 9284, generally as outlined in Appendix A of the Report dated
April 6, 2020, entitled “COVID-19 Pandemic Impacts: Financial Update
and Short-Term Actions”, to adjust the remittance due date for the July
main property tax notices from July 3, 2020 to September 2, 2020.
THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment a by-law
generally in accordance with the above.
REFERRAL REPORTS
1. CD-1 Amendment: 2538 Birch Street (formerly 1296 West Broadway) -
WITHDRAWN
BY-LAWS
Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart advised they had reviewed
the proceedings of the meeting related to by-law 1 and would be voting on the enactment.
Councillor Wiebe advised he had reviewed the proceedings of the meeting related to by-law 6
and would be voting on the enactment.

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 10
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 8 inclusive, and authorize
the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Note: By-law 9 entitled “A By-law to amend the Tax Penalty By-law No. 9284” was not enacted
as some components of Report 1 were referred to the Council meeting on April 28, 2020.
1. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (3281-3295 East 22nd Avenue) (By-law No. 12675)
(Councillors Dominato, Hardwick and Swanson ineligible for the vote.)
2. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1523 Davie Street (Gabriola Mansion)
(By-law No. 12676)
3. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 1717 Lorne Street (By-law No. 12677)
4. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (1303 Kingsway and 3728 Clark Drive)
(By-law No. 12678)
5. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (1303 Kingsway and 3728 Clark
Drive) (By-law No. 12679)
6. A By-law to amend Sign By-law No. 11879 (3510 Fraser Street) (By-law No. 12680)
(Councillors Dominato and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
7. A By-law to amend Noise Control By-law No. 6555 (3510 Fraser Street)
(By-law No. 12681)
8. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 with regard to CD-1 District Parking
requirements (3510 Fraser Street) (By-law No. 12682)
9. A By-law to amend the Tax Penalty By-law No. 9284 – Referred to the Council meeting
on April 28, 2020
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Single Room Occupancy Cleaning Cost Recovery
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 28, 2020, as a
Council Members’ Motion.

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 11
2. Ensuring All Vancouver Residents Can Comply with Public Health Guidelines
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 28, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
3. Mitigating COVID-19 Financial Impacts on the City of Vancouver and its Taxpayers
Councillor Hardwick submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 28, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
4. Strengthening Representative Democratic Practices in the City of Vancouver
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 28, 2020, as a
Council Members’ Motion.
5. COVID-19 Salary Adjustment
Mayor Stewart submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of April 28, 2020, as a Council Members’
Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Motion to Establish a COVID-19 Response and Recovery Working Group of
Council
Sadhu Johnston, City Manager and Rosemary Hagiwara, Acting City Clerk, responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
WHEREAS
1. The COVID-19 global pandemic is having a severe social, economic and fiscal
impact on the City of Vancouver;
2. The Province of B.C. declared a state of emergency to respond to the COVID-19
pandemic and on March 19, 2020, Vancouver City Council unanimously voted to
declare a local state of emergency;
3. The City has responded quickly to advice from the Provincial Chief Medical
Officer aimed at “flattening the curve” of new COVID-19 cases in order to
mitigate potentially disastrous numbers of people contracting the virus and
overwhelming our health care system. Vancouver’s Emergency Operations

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 12
Centre, headed by the Fire Chief, involves many dozens of staff in coordinating
response within the city and with provincial and federal agencies. Staff are
involved in securing space for temporary medical facilities, rooms for vulnerable
people in the Downtown Eastside to enable needed social distancing, food
delivery and social assistance programs for those in need, and public washing
stations. Response to the COVID-19 pandemic is consuming a great deal of staff
time;
4. Regular Council and Standing Committee meetings were temporarily suspended
to enable City staff to focus on COVID-19 response. Electronic council meetings
are now being scheduled to continue the work of the city, however there is an
expectation that such meetings be less time-consuming in order to ease the
burden on staff;
5. Council is elected by the public and has a decision-making role and obligation to
represent public interests both during the pandemic state of emergency and
through the recovery period;
6. Enabling Council to regularly avail itself of expert advice, information and
discussion during a time of great uncertainty and major change will lead to more
sound decisions;
7. The duration of the pandemic is unknown. Current estimates are that emergency
response measures may be needed for anywhere from several more months to
one to two years;
8. Most projections are that economic, social and fiscal recovery will take years and
that there will likely not be a return to “business as usual” as we have known
it. Planning for the best possible recovery will require the leadership of Council.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council establish a Committee as per
section 159 of the Vancouver Charter, called the Pandemic Response and Recovery
Working Group, the purposes of which shall be:
a. to enable Council to seek, share and discuss information regarding pandemic
response and recovery planning while minimizing the burden on city staff;
b. provide recommendations for Council decisions on the COVID-19 pandemic
response and a social, economic and fiscal COVID-19 recovery plan for the City
of Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT the structure of the Pandemic Response and Recovery Working Group
shall be a committee of the whole of Council, the Chair of which shall rotate for each
meeting amongst Council members in the same order as the established seniority roster
for Deputy Mayor;
FURTHER THAT the rules of procedure of the Pandemic Response and Recovery
Working Group shall be the City of Vancouver’s Procedure By-law. Members of the
Working Group may adopt by consensus additional meeting ground rules that enhance
collaboration and productivity;

Council Meeting
Minutes, April 14, 2020 13
AND FURTHER THAT the working group shall be immediately established and be
time-bound to cover the period of the COVID-19 pandemic response and recovery, but
shall be discharged, as per Section 160 of the Vancouver Charter, no later than before
the first Monday after November 1 in the year of a general local election.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05775)
(Councillors Boyle and Swanson abstained from the vote)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Previous Decision on Referral Reports at the Special Council on March 31, 2020
Councilor Bligh enquired about the status of the three Referral Reports on the Special Council
meeting held on the March 31, 2020, that were not referred to Public Hearing and possible next
steps to move those applications forward. Mayor Stewart advised that as per section 8.13(4) of
the Procedure By-law, a motion to rescind an adopted motion can be made at a future Council
meeting by a Council member who voted with the majority.
2. Update on the Safe Supply Implementation
Councillor Kirby-Yung requested an update on the safe supply implementation now that the
federal government has endorsed the program. Mayor Stewart provided a brief update and
requested a report back by staff and/or Vancouver Coastal Health.
Councillor Bligh requested clarification between the Pandemic Withdrawal Management
Program and how it is different from what is called Safe Supply. Mayor Stewart provided a brief
update on the health orders.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 9:16 pm.
* * * * *