COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 25, 2020
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, February 25, 2020, at
9:36 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova* (Leave of absence for civic
business from 9:30 am-1:00 pm)
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry*
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson*
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Denise Swanston, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraph(s):

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 2
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Fry absent for the vote)
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Council – February 11, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting of February 11, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Fry absent for the vote)
2. Court of Revision (BIA) – February 11, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Court of Revision (BIA) meeting of February 11, 2020, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Fry absent for the vote)
3. Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – February 12, 2020
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the Minutes of the Council meeting following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting of February 11, 2020, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors De Genova and Dominato absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 3
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT Council adopt Reports 1 to 3 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
PRESENTATIONS
1. On-Street Car Sharing Parking Policy: Updates to One-Way Fleets at Metered
Parking
February 12, 2020
Christopher Darwent, Senior Parking Engineer presented an update to the Parking Policy
Updates for One Way Car Sharing and along with the General Manager of Engineering
Services, responded to questions.
Council heard from one speaker in support of the recommendations.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
A. THAT Council approve the updates to one-way car sharing parking policy related
to metered parking as outlined in the report dated February 12, 2020, entitled
“On-Street Car Sharing Parking Policy: Updates to One-Way Fleets at Metered
Parking”, to ensure a robust car sharing market continues in Vancouver, and that
a resulting 2020 revenue decrease of $200,000 be managed within the existing
2020 operating budget;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back on the initial outcomes of
these car sharing parking policy changes in fall 2020 as part of the strategy to
achieve Big Move #2 (Safe and convenient active transportation and transit) and
Big Move #3 (Pollution free cars, trucks and buses) of the Climate Emergency
Response.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, changes to the Parking Meter By-law
No. 2952 as detailed in the report dated February 12, 2020, entitled “On-Street
Car Sharing Parking Policy: Updates to One-Way Fleets at Metered Parking” and
Appendix A of the aforementioned report;
FURTHER THAT Council authorize the Director of Legal Services to prepare and
bring forward for enactment amendments to the Parking Meter By-law No. 2952
as generally outlined in Appendix A in the above-noted report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05548)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 4
2. By-laws for an Inter-Municipal Ride-hailing Business Licence
January 28, 2020
Kathryn Holm, Chief License Inspector provided a brief introduction and Sarah Hicks, Deputy
Chief Licence Inspector, presented on By-laws for an Inter-Municipal Ride-hailing Business
Licence; together, along with the City Manager and staff from Engineering Services, responded
to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the City of Vancouver’s participation in the
Inter-Municipal Business Licence (IMBL) for Ride-hailing as described in the
Report dated January 28, 2020, entitled “By-laws for an Inter-Municipal
Ride-hailing Business Licence”.
B. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to prepare and bring
forward for enactment the by-laws necessary to implement the IMBL for
Ride-hailing, generally as outlined in Appendix A and Appendix B of the Report
dated January 28, 2020, entitled “By-laws for an Inter-Municipal Ride-hailing
Business Licence”.
C. THAT, subject to approval of B above, Council instruct the Director of Legal
Services to prepare and bring forward the consequential amendments to the
Licence By-law, generally as outlined in Appendix C of the Report dated
January 28, 2020, entitled “By-laws for an Inter-Municipal Ride-hailing Business
Licence”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05549)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. City of Vancouver LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee – Renaming Consideration
At the Council meeting on February 11, 2020, due to time constraints, Council referred the
following motion to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
February 12, 2020. Subsequently, at the Standing Committee meeting on February 12, 2020,
the motion was referred to the Council meeting on February 25, 2020, as Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver has reconstituted its advisory committees in March 2019,
including the renaming of some advisory committees from previous years.
2. The LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee has held three regular meetings in 2019 and

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 5
at two of these meetings has collectively expressed the desire to rename the
Committee to include an “S” to better and more formally reflect in the committee’s
name the fact that it represents Two-Spirit, which is a cultural identity used by
some indigenous people who have both masculine and feminine spirits.
3. Vancouver is a City of Reconciliation committed to a sustained relationship of
mutual respect and understanding with local First Nations and the Urban
Indigenous community.
4. I, Councillor Lisa Dominato, am the Council appointed liaison to the LGBTQ2+
Advisory Committee and have been requested by the Committee to respectfully
propose this renaming to Council for its prompt consideration.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council formally rename the presently named
“LGBTQ2+ Advisory Committee” to the “2SLGBTQ+ Advisory Committee”, effective
immediately.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05550)
(Councillors Fry, Hardwick and Wiebe abstained from the vote)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
REPORTS
1. 2020 Critical One-time Cultural Grant for Red Gate Arts Society
January 20, 2020
A. THAT Council approve a one-time critical grant of $27,000 to Red Gate Arts
Society source of funds to be the 2020 Cultural Grants Operating Budget.
B. THAT the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services be
authorized to negotiate and execute agreements to disburse the grants described
in the Report dated January 20, 2020, entitled “2020 Critical One-time Cultural
Grant for Red Gate Arts Society” on the terms and conditions generally set out
below, and on such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the General
Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services and the City Solicitor.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations be created by the approval of A above unless
and until the applicable grant agreement or letter of agreement is approved by
the City in accordance with B above and executed and delivered by both the
grant recipient and General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services
(or their designate).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A BY THE
REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 05558)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 6
2. Local Improvement – Approval of Billing Rates for Projects Completed in 2019
January 29, 2020
A. THAT the billing rates for lane paving and lane speed hump Local Improvement
projects completed in 2019 be approved by Council.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary
debenture by-law(s) with this report’s approval by Council.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05559)
3. Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts
February 11, 2020
A. THAT Council approve budget and funding adjustments totaling a net increase of
$8.4 million to the Multi-Year Capital Projects Budget, increasing the 2019-2022
Capital Plan by $.2 million from external funding, as outlined in the Report dated
February 11, 2020, entitled “Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and
Closeouts” and Appendix 2 of the same report, and with no change to the current
overall 2020 Capital Expenditure Budget.
B. THAT, as part of the quarterly Capital Budget closeout process, Council approve
the closeout of one capital project that was completed with a surplus exceeding
$200,000, as outlined in the Report dated February 11, 2020, entitled “Quarterly
Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts” and Appendix 3 of the same report.
C. THAT Council receive for information the budget surpluses or deficits for capital
projects included in this quarter closeout that were funded by voter-approved
capital funding, as noted in Appendix 4 of the Report dated February 11, 2020,
entitled “Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments and Closeouts”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05560)
BY-LAWS
At the Public Hearing on January 28, 2020, Councillor Bligh declared a Conflict of Interest
related to by-law 1 on the agenda for this meeting, as they are a resident in the Nanaimo
Sub-area. Councillor Bligh left the Chamber at 11:24 am and returned after the vote at
11:25 am.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 7
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05551)
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 2, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05556)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
1. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 regarding Nanaimo Sub-area of the
Grandview-Woodland Community Plan, and related plan amendments
(By-law No. 12646)
2. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 (1090 West Pender Street)
(By-flaw No. 12647)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
None.
B. Council Members’ Motions
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business from
meetings this morning, Tuesday, February 25, 2020, from 9:30 am to 1:00 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05561)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 8
2. Limiting 2021 Property Tax Rate Increase to No More Than 5%
* * * * *
At this point in the proceedings, Mayor Stewart stepped down as Chair in order to introduce his
motion; Councillor Dominato, as Deputy Mayor, assumed the Chair. Following the completion of
the item, the Mayor resumed the role of Chair
* * * * *
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council now sets a target limit on the property tax rate increase to no more than
5% in the 2021 budget.
referred
The Chair noted requests to speak to this motion had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the motion entitled "Limiting 2021 Property Tax Rate Increase to No More Than
5%”, be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
February 26, 2020, to hear from speakers.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE REFERRAL MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the referral date be amended to March 11, 2020.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05552)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the referral as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05553) with Councillor De Genova absent for the vote.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 9
3. Declaring a Homelessness Emergency: Making an Emergency Plan to Drastically
Reduce Homelessness
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. At least 2,223 people were counted as homeless across Vancouver in 2019;
2. At least 7,655 were counted as homeless across British Columbia;
3. At least 30,000 are homeless in Canada in any one day with 235,000
experiencing homelessness in a year;
4. Homelessness robs people of their security, dignity, rights and lives -- homeless
people have about half the life expectancy as housed people;
5. Canadians are upset by the fact that we have homelessness in a rich country,
and that people have to live on the streets. On June 21, 2019, the Governor
General of Canada signed into law Bill C-97, which contained the National
Housing Strategy Act, and the federal right to housing legislation -- which
enshrines “adequate housing as a fundamental human right;
6. Numerous academic studies have established that providing secure housing is a
more cost-effective solution to homelessness than maintaining temporary
shelters and incurring additional policing, mental health service, and health care
costs;
7. The full continuum of housing needs far outweigh local government’s available
resources and funding required to effectively address this issue, and desperately
needs the support of both the Provincial and Federal governments;
8. BC Housing and other social housing providers have long wait lists and a lack of
available housing, while:
a) Low rent housing is being lost to rent increases when tenants move out;
b) Not enough social housing at welfare rate is coming on-stream to make
up for the loss of low rent housing; and
c) Modular housing works well to house people who have been homeless,
but the province isn’t funding enough of them to meet the demand;
9. Single Room Occupancy (SRO) hotels are often the last resort before
homelessness. SROs are being bought by investors who are evicting current low
income tenants by renovating and increasing the rents. Vancouver could lose
hundreds of SRO rooms to this practice;
10. Welfare and disability shelter rates as determined by the province are too low at
$375 per month to even cover operating costs for an SRO room;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 10
11. Skyrocketing prices for housing and land over the past 10 years, spurred by low-
interest rates and financial speculation, have turned Vancouver into one of the
most expensive housing markets in the world, far out of reach of most local
incomes;
12. On January 29, 2020, following a unanimous council vote, Ottawa became the
first city in Canada to declare a housing and homelessness emergency; and
13. The circumstances and extent of homelessness in Vancouver constitute a crisis
and emergency situation.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council declares a Homelessness Emergency.
B. THAT Council urge the federal and provincial governments as well as regional
and local governments along with other partners, to make a Homelessness
Emergency plan to build or find dignified, affordable housing for at least 80
percent of counted homeless people within three years.
C. THAT Council direct staff to incorporate this target into the existing Housing and
Homelessness Strategy and be a key focus of the Housing and Homelessness
Strategy ongoing.
D. THAT this Homelessness Emergency plan includes raising social assistance
shelter rates so people can afford to pay rent.
E. THAT this Homelessness Emergency plan include recommendations for
implementing vacancy control as a tool to preserve existing lower rent
accommodation.
F. THAT Council direct staff to prepare and submit the following Homelessness
Emergency declaration and request for a plan, along with whereas clauses 2, 4
and 5, as a resolution to the Lower Mainland Local Government Association
(LMLGA) and the Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM):
i. THAT the UBCM declare a province-wide Homelessness Emergency and
call upon the Province to work with local governments, BC Housing and
other partners on a Homelessness Emergency Plan to build or find
dignified, affordable housing for at least 80 percent of counted homeless
people within three years; and
ii. THAT the UBCM recommends the province implement vacancy control
as a tool to preserve existing lower rent accommodation.
G. THAT Council direct staff to prepare and submit this Homelessness Emergency
declaration and request for a plan, along with whereas clauses 3, 4 and 5, as a
resolution to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM):
i. THAT the FCM declare a nation-wide Homelessness Emergency and

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 11
call upon the Federal Government to work with local and provincial
governments, and other partners on a Homelessness Emergency Plan
to build or find dignified, affordable housing for at least 80 percent of
counted homeless people within three years.
referred
The Mayor noted requests to speak to this motion had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the motion entitled "Declaring a Homelessness Emergency: Making an
Emergency Plan to Drastically Reduce Homelessness”, be referred to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on February 26, 2020, to hear from
speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05562)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
4. Accessibility Funding and Guarantees for Passenger Directed Vehicles in BC
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. Passenger Directed Vehicles (PDV) refer to all vehicles for hire including taxis
and ride-hailing, and Transportation Network Services (TNS) are app-based ride
hailing services; and
2. Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect
September 16, 2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip
but does not otherwise mandate minimum number of accessible vehicles, nor
how the non-accessible vehicle trip fee will be utilized.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following two motions (as attached in
Appendix A and Appendix B), be separately forwarded by the City of Vancouver for
consideration by the Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA) at its
May 6 to 8, 2020, Annual Conference and by the Union of B.C. Municipalities at its
September 21 to 25, 2020, Convention.
APPENDIX A
ACCESSIBILITY GUARANTEE FOR PASSENGER
City of Vancouver
DIRECTED VEHICLES
WHEREAS Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect
September 16, 2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip but otherwise

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 12
does not oblige Passenger Directed Vehicles to a timeline or otherwise mandate a percentage
of all fleet vehicles be accessible;
AND WHEREAS According to statistics from the Passenger Transportation Board, about 14 per
cent of taxis in the province and about 19 per cent in Metro Vancouver are accessible and
Transportation Network Services (app-based ride hailing services) in other jurisdictions have
demonstrated an ability to provide accessible vehicles as part of their fleet and business model:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the provincial government design and implement a
Wheelchair Accessibility Guarantee for all Passenger Directed Vehicle fleets that support a
minimum percent of all fleets are guaranteed to be wheelchair accessible, sufficient to ensure
that transportation options for persons with disabilities are equal to those provided to non-
disabled persons in all Passenger Directed Vehicle fleets;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this act be developed in consultation with the
Passenger Directed Vehicle industry, disability community, and local government
representatives.
APPENDIX B
ACCESSIBILITY FUNDING FOR PASSENGER
City of Vancouver
DIRECTED VEHICLES
WHEREAS Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect
September 16, 2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip but otherwise
does not determine how or when those funds will be deployed to support accessibility of
Passenger Directed Vehicles (PDVs);
AND WHEREAS the disability community has identified a number of PDV accessibility
concerns, including but not limited to:
1. Lack of wheelchair accessible vehicles in Transportation Network Services;
2. No accessible (telephone) booking process for Transportation Network Services;
3. No central dispatch for wheelchair accessible vehicles in taxi services;
4. No accessible payment process, including cash and TaxiSavers, for Transportation
Network Services; and
5. No compulsory driver training for safely transporting persons with disabilities and seniors
in all Passenger Directed Vehicles.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the provincial government design and implement an
Accessibility Funding Strategy for all Passenger Directed Vehicle fleets that ensures that
transportation options for persons with disabilities are equal to those provided to non-disabled
persons in all Passenger Directed Vehicle fleets, and specifically that all fleets have sufficient
numbers of wheelchair accessible vehicles, and accessible booking, dispatch and payment
processes;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT this act be developed in consultation with the
Passenger Directed Vehicle industry, disability community, and local government
representatives.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 13
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
A. THAT, in the main motion, Council insert the phrase “with respective
backgrounders”, after the words “Appendix B”
B. THAT in Appendix A, in the second whereas clause, Council move the phrase
“in other jurisdictions” from its original location, to after the words “accessible
and”;
FURTHER THAT, after the words “THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT”
Council add the words “the UBCM calls on”;
FURTHER THAT the phrase “to work in consultation with the Passenger
Directed Vehicle industry, disability community, and local government
representatives in order to” be inserted after the words “provincial government”.
AND THAT Council strike the last clause “THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER
RESOLVED”.
C. THAT, in Appendix B, in the second WHEREAS clause insert the phrase “lack
of accessible vehicles or central dispatch for accessible vehicles, accessible
booking or payment processes or compulsory driver training” be added to the
end of the sentence.
FURTHER THAT sub clauses 1 through 5 be deleted.
FURTHER THAT the words “the UBCM calls on” be inserted after the first
THAT.
FURTHER THAT the phrase “to work in consultation with the Passenger
Directed Vehicle industry, disability community, and local government
representatives in order to” be inserted after the words “provincial government”;
AND FURTHER THAT the “AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED” clause be
deleted.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05554)
The amendments having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05555)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. Passenger Directed Vehicles (PDV) refer to all vehicles for hire including taxis
and ride-hailing, and Transportation Network Services (TNS) are app-based ride
hailing services; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 14
2. Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect
September 16, 2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip
but does not otherwise mandate minimum number of accessible vehicles, nor
how the non-accessible vehicle trip fee will be utilized.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following two motions (as attached in
Appendix A and Appendix B, with respective backgrounders), be separately forwarded
by the City of Vancouver for consideration by the Lower Mainland Local Government
Association (LMLGA) at its May 6 to 8, 2020, Annual Conference and by the Union of
B.C. Municipalities at its September 21 to 25, 2020, Convention.
APPENDIX A
Accessibility Guarantee for Passenger Directed Vehicles City of Vancouver
WHEREAS Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect
September 16, 2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip but otherwise
does not oblige Passenger Directed Vehicles to a timeline or otherwise mandate a percentage
of all fleet vehicles be accessible;
AND WHEREAS According to statistics from the Passenger Transportation Board, about 14 per
cent of taxis in the province and about 19 per cent in Metro Vancouver are accessible and in
other jurisdictions Transportation Network Services (app-based ride hailing services) have
demonstrated an ability to provide accessible vehicles as part of their fleet and business model:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the UBCM calls on the provincial government to work in
consultation with the Passenger Directed Vehicle industry, disability community, and local
government representatives in order to design and implement a Wheelchair Accessibility
Guarantee for all Passenger Directed Vehicle fleets that support a minimum percent of all fleets
are guaranteed to be wheelchair accessible, sufficient to ensure that transportation options for
persons with disabilities are equal to those provided to non-disabled persons in all Passenger
Directed Vehicle fleets.
Background information
Accessibility Guarantee for Passenger Directed Vehicles
Passenger Directed Vehicles (PDV) refer to all vehicles for hire including taxis and ride-hailing,
and Transportation Network Services (TNS) are app-based ride hailing services; and
Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect September 16,
2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip but does not otherwise mandate
minimum number of accessible vehicles, nor how the non-accessible vehicle trip fee will be
utilized.
According to statistics from the Passenger Transportation Board, about
14 per cent of taxis in the province and about 19 per cent in Metro Vancouver are
accessible, and Transportation Network Services (app-based ride hailing services) in
other jurisdictions have demonstrated an ability to provide accessible vehicles as part of their
fleet and business model.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 15
Accessibility issues around ride hailing continues to be an concern in other established markets
and offers some important lessons for British Columbia’s nascent PDV-TNS ecosystem.
Other jurisdictions with more mature TNS systems for example in New York State are struggling
to meet accessibility needs.In White Plains, New York, a class action suit is claiming that ride-
hailing apps discriminate against disabled people. New York City’s Taxi and Limousine
Commission has rules for these for-hire vehicle companies, namely that they either dispatch a
minimum percentage of trips with wheelchair-accessible vehicles or respond to at least 60% of
rider requests for accessible vehicles within 15 minutes. For-hire vehicle companies can also
partner with qualified accessible-vehicle dispatchers to meet that requirement. But despite all
this, NYLPI’s report shows that Uber, Lyft and Juno provide far less reliable service for disabled
riders than for able-bodied riders.
APPENDIX B
Accessibility Funding for Passenger Directed
City of Vancouver
Vehicles
WHEREAS Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect
September 16, 2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip but otherwise
does not determine how or when those funds will be deployed to support accessibility of
Passenger Directed Vehicles (PDVs);
AND WHEREAS the disability community has identified a number of PDV accessibility
concerns, including but not limited to lack of accessible vehicles or central dispatch for
accessible vehicles, accessible booking or payment processes or compulsory driver training.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the UBCM calls on the provincial government to work in
consultation with the Passenger Directed Vehicle industry, disability community, and local
government representatives in order to design and implement an Accessibility Funding Strategy
for all Passenger Directed Vehicle fleets that ensures that transportation options for persons
with disabilities are equal to those provided to non-disabled persons in all Passenger Directed
Vehicle fleets, and specifically that all fleets have sufficient numbers of wheelchair accessible
vehicles, and accessible booking, dispatch and payment processes;
Background information
Accessibility Funding for Passenger Directed Vehicles
Passenger Directed Vehicles (PDV) refer to all vehicles for hire including taxis and ride-hailing,
and Transportation Network Services (TNS) are app-based ride hailing services; and
Bill 55, the BC Passenger Transportation Amendment Act which took effect September 16,
2019, imposes a $0.30 fee for each non-accessible vehicle trip but does not otherwise
mandate minimum number of accessible vehicles, nor how the non-accessible vehicle trip fee
will be utilized.
In Vancouver and elsewhere, the disability community has identified a number of PDV
accessibility concerns, including but not limited to:
1. Lack of wheelchair accessible vehicles in Transportation Network Services;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 16
2. No accessible (telephone) booking process for Transportation Network
Services;
3. No central dispatch for wheelchair accessible vehicles in taxi services;
4. No accessible payment process, including cash and TaxiSavers, for
Transportation Network Services; and
5. No compulsory driver training for safely transporting persons with disabilities
and seniors in all Passenger Directed Vehicles.
Accessibility issues around ride hailing continues to be an concern in other established
markets and offers some important lessons for British Columbia’s nascent PDV-TNS
ecosystem.
Other jurisdictions with more mature TNS systems for example in New York State are
struggling to meet accessibility needs. In White Plains, New York, a class action suit is
claiming that ride-hailing apps discriminate against disabled people. New York City’s Taxi and
Limousine Commission has rules for these for-hire vehicle companies, namely that they either
dispatch a minimum percentage of trips with wheelchair-accessible vehicles or respond to at
least 60% of rider requests for accessible vehicles within 15 minutes. For-hire vehicle
companies can also partner with qualified accessible-vehicle dispatchers to meet that
requirement. But despite all this, NYLPI’s report shows that Uber, Lyft and Juno provide far
less reliable service for disabled riders than for able-bodied riders.
5. Declaring Support for an Eastside Arts District
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. The area of Vancouver commonly referred to as the East Side: roughly and
generally-speaking Columbia Street to Victoria Drive and 1st Avenue to the
waterfront; is a distinct locality that supports a diverse ecosystem of residential,
industrial, commercial, and cultural uses;
2. Of all major Canadian cities, Vancouver has the highest population of artists and
cultural workers (Hill Strategies: “Artist and Cultural Workers in Canadian
Municipalities” 2014). The highest concentration of artists in Vancouver are found
in the East Side, specifically postal region neighbourhoods V6A and V5L (Hill
Strategies: “Artists by Neighbourhood in Canada” 2005);
3. The Eastside Culture Crawl is an annual 4-day visual arts festival that involves
artists on Vancouver’s East Side opening their studios to the public, the event
serves to highlight and advocate the importance of the arts as a cultural and
economic driver for the region;
4. Since the Eastside Culture Crawl started in Strathcona in 1997, the event has
grown to include over 500 artists, crafts-people and designers, attracting an
audience of more than 45,000 people. Today, the Eastside Culture Crawl has
partnerships with a variety of local venues, galleries, studios and maker-spaces

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 17
and has become a prominent feature of the East Side’s cultural identity and
place-making;
5. The Eastside Culture Crawl Society recently reported that almost 400,000 square
feet of artist studio spaces have disappeared in the last 10 years in their
catchment. The Society’s 2019 “A City Without Art? No Net Loss, Plus!” report
also went on to document that of 1,612 artists with studios in the area, 1,332 face
an imminent threat of displacement due to future property development;
6. Vancouver’s 2019 Culture|Shift Strategy and Making Space for Arts and Culture
specifically identifies the need to secure affordable industrial spaces for arts and
culture; the insecure rental tenure coupled with an affordability crisis have
exacerbated the displacement of cultural spaces and artists;
7. Vancouver’s 2019 Culture|Shift Strategy and Making Space for Arts and Culture
Action 19 specifically identifies “cultural districts” along with density bonusing and
commercial linkage fees as a potential tool to prevent displacement and secure
spaces for affordable non-profit arts and cultural space in commercial and
industrial zones;
8. In its National Cultural Districts Exchange Toolkit Americans for the Arts (the US’
leading arts advocacy non-profit) describes the importance of cultural districts to
strengthen local economies, create an enhanced sense of place and deepen
local cultural capacity. The toolkit further advises the use of local partnerships
and consultants, engagement, planning, placemaking, and funding as
imperatives to developing and advancing a cultural district;
9. The official recognition of the Eastside Arts District along with policies and
dedicated funding would serve as a catalyst for building community identity,
tourism, and economic growth. (Eastside Culture Crawl Society: “A City Without
Art? No Net Loss, Plus!” 2019); and
10. The False Creek Flats Grade-Separated Road Alignment approved by Council
on October 22, 2019 recommended:
a) (F) THAT staff work with the Strathcona neighbourhood to prepare a
summary of capital investment priorities for the next 10-15 years, including
investments in community facilities, and parks and open spaces, and report
back to Council in mid-2020;
b) (A) FURTHER THAT Council endorse that the Prior/Venables Street
underpass include an all-ages-and-abilities route for the Adanac Bikeway,
provide accessible walking connections, facilitate access to local businesses
via Raymur Avenue, and be integrated with public spaces and an enjoyable
public realm.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 18
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back on recommendations for the declaration
of an Eastside Arts District.
B. THAT Council direct staff to consult with the Eastside Culture Crawl Society, as
well as local artists, residents and businesses on scoping an Eastside Arts
District Strategy, complimentary to the report back on recommendations for the
declaration of an Eastside Arts District, and include:
i. Determining district boundaries and scale;
ii. Identifying resources, stakeholders and partners;
iii. Considerations around land use policy and regulatory frameworks;
iv. Look for potential sources of long term funding, programming and
sustainability, including but not limited to incentives, density bonusing and
partnerships.
C. THAT this Declaration and Strategy be developed in conjunction with existent
and ongoing work on the Vancouver Plan, Making Spaces for Arts and Culture,
Employment Lands and Economy Review and overlapping local area plans;
FURTHER THAT staff provide an interim report back on the declaration of an
Eastside Arts District as part of the larger culture plan update later this year.
D. THAT pursuant to Council direction from October 22, 2019, staff include planning
and implementation of an Eastside Arts District and Strategy as one of the
possible recommendations in a summary of capital investment priorities and
integration of public spaces and an enjoyable public realm.
referred
The Mayor noted requests to speak to this motion had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion entitled "Declaring Support for an Eastside Arts District”, be referred to
the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on February 26, 2020, to
hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
* * * * *
Council recessed at 11:58 am and reconvened at 3:18 pm.
* * * * *

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 19
6. Relief and Rehabilitation of Aggressive Dog Designation
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver Animal Control By-law, By-Law No. 9150, (“the By-law”)
establishes the pound with the ability to license and regulate dogs and other
animals:
a) The By-law defines “aggressive dog” to mean:
i. a dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack without
provocation other domestic animals or human beings; or
ii. a dog which has bitten another domestic animal or human being without
provocation;
b) Section 4.3 of the By-law states that a person who keeps an “aggressive dog”
must not permit, suffer, or allow the dog to be on a street or other public place
or on any other property that such person does not own or control unless
such person has muzzled the dog to prevent it from biting another animal or a
person;
2. Under the authority of section 324.1 of the Vancouver Charter an animal control
officer may opine that a dog is “dangerous;” and
a) An animal control officer is authorized to enter a premise with or without a
warrant and seize a “dangerous dog;” and
b) In addition to any other authority, if an animal control officer has reasonable
grounds to believe that a dog is a “dangerous dog”, the officer may apply to
the Provincial Court for an order that the dog be destroyed in the manner
specified in the order;
3. The By-law codifies the designation of “aggressive” dog as a life-sentence of
muzzling, restricted socialization, reduced exercise, and reduced training
opportunities, which is a detriment to both animal welfare and the long term
assurance of public safety;
4. The Vancouver Charter codifies the designation of “dangerous dog” as a death
sentence, unless the dog guardian is able to succeed in court to save the dog’s
life;
5. Muzzles, restricted socialization, and restricted off-leash opportunities are only a
part of a comprehensive strategy to adequately and humanely manage and
rehabilitate aggressive dogs;
6. Neither the By-law nor the Vancouver Charter distinguish between the various
reasons dogs can be aggressive, nor do these laws provide the potential to
recognize the prognosis of dogs. These laws also do not recognize that there are
different types of management and rehabilitation tools available to meet the

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 20
needs of specific dogs;
7. Animal behaviourists identify at least a dozen underlying causes for aggressive
behaviour such as past trauma, fear, anxiety, inadequate socialization, medical
issues, resource-guarding, and others. Dogs can also bite because of prey drive;
8. Current evidence suggests that in many cases, positive reinforcement-based
behaviour modification techniques under the guidance of a qualified Animal
Behaviorist can be used to effectively rehabilitate and manage dogs labeled as
“aggressive” or “dangerous;”
9. Qualified Animal Behaviourists have earned a minimum MSc, or PhD in animal
behaviour, and typically work closely with veterinarians to provide expertise in:
a) behaviour modification, so they know the techniques that produce changes in
behavior;
b) the normal behaviour of the species they’re treating, so they can recognize
how and why an animal’s behavior is abnormal; and
c) teaching and counseling people, so they can effectively understand and work
with their pet;
10. The By-law does not specifically allow for appeal, relief or reversal of the
designation “aggressive dog” following successful behaviour modification;
however;
a) The Judicial Review Procedure Act does allow for appeal of “aggressive dog”
designation before a provincial court, however in precedent setting Lee vs
City of Vancouver and Cristofoli 2002 BSC 240 (paragraph 40) the Judge
states that an aggressive dog designation is not a “decision” subject to
judicial review;
b) Other municipalities have developed an appeal process after an aggressive
designation has been issued. The City of New Westminster allows the owner
of an “aggressive dog” to apply to the supervisor for relief from the
requirements of the bylaw with respect to aggressive dogs; after one year, no
additional complaints, and proof that the owner and the dog have
successfully completed a course by a recognized and accredited institution or
trainer to address the dog’s aggressive behaviour; and
11. For the last 15 years, provincial court judges released “dangerous dogs” on
conditions pursuant to the Vancouver Charter. However, as result of a recent
B.C. Court of Appeal decision, this is no longer allowed. “Dangerous dogs” are
now at much greater risk of being euthanized instead of being given a chance to
be properly rehabilitated and managed.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the designation of “dangerous” or “aggressive” dog and attendant
regulations can be an important tool for the protection of the public and other

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 21
animals.
B. THAT after working with a qualified professional Animal Behaviourist to assess
and modify the behaviour of a dog, a dog custodian should be allowed to apply
for a re-assessment and possible re-evaluation of an “aggressive dog” to the
satisfaction of and at no cost to the City of Vancouver Animal Control authority,
no less than one year after such a designation is made.
C. THAT prior to the final determination of an “aggressive dog” by authorized City
Official, a qualified Animal Behaviourist should be consulted to provide an opinion
on whether the dog is aggressive.
D. THAT Council direct staff to prepare appropriate legal language and present a
by-law change to allow relief of “aggressive dog” designation per resolution B.
E. THAT Council direct staff to prepare appropriate legal language and present a
by-law change to redefine the definition of “aggressive” such that an “aggressive
dog” is one that a qualified animal behaviourist believes is an aggressive dog,
after an assessment is done by that behaviourist and a full investigation is
conducted by the City’s animal control department, per resolution C.
F. THAT before any sections of the by-law are updated, staff report back with any
recommendations, and include considerations of other jurisdictions where
modernized, progressive animal control by-laws have been enacted, including
New Westminster, Coquitlam and Fraser Valley Regional District.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the motion entitled "Relief and Rehabilitation of Aggressive Dog Designation”, be
referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
February 26, 2020, to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
7. Reducing Truck Pollution in Clark-Knight Corridor and Other City Streets
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. On June 19, 2019, Council passed a resolution calling for significant
strengthening of provincial and federal regulations restricting traffic pollution,
particularly of the particulates (soot) emitted by heavy trucks as well as requiring
fuel alternatives that significantly reduce pollution on major roads; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 22
2. Council agreed to forward a resolution to the next Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) and Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM)
meetings taking place later this year.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Mayor and Council submit the resolution as
attached as Appendix A of this motion as LMLGA and UBCM Resolutions: “Reducing
Truck Pollution in Clark-Knight Corridor and Other City Streets”.
APPENDIX A
REDUCING TRUCK POLLUTION IN CLARK-KNIGHT
City of Vancouver
CORRIDOR AND OTHER CITY STREETS
WHEREAS the high number of older, heavy-duty diesel trucks travelling back and forth to the
Port of Vancouver exposes homes, schools and businesses lining Vancouver’s Clark-Knight
Corridor to significant traffic pollution, according to a July 2018 study by University of Toronto
professors in collaboration with Environment and Climate Change Canada, the Ontario Ministry
of Environment, Conservation and Parks, and Metro Vancouver;
AND WHEREAS exposure to high levels of traffic pollution is linked to increased risk of
residents and workers developing respiratory diseases, such as asthma and heart disease,
according to Health Canada. Of particular danger is soot, which is indicative of diesel exhaust, a
carcinogen associated with lung cancer;
AND WHEREAS the study’s authors warned that elevated levels of traffic pollution can be
detected as far as 250 metres from major roads, putting millions across the country and
thousands living in Vancouver at risk of suffering serious health issues from living on or near
major roads:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Lower Mainland Local Government Association
(LMLGA) and the Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) lobby the Provincial and Federal
governments to significantly strengthen regulations restricting traffic pollution, particularly of the
particulates (soot) emitted by heavy-duty vehicles as well as requiring fuel alternatives that
significantly reduce pollution on major roads.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
A. THAT the title be deleted and replaced with “Reducing Truck Pollution on
Residential-adjacent Commercial Transport (trucking) Routes”.
B. THAT the two WHEREAS clauses of Appendix A be struck and replaced with:
WHEREAS the high number of older, heavy-duty diesel trucks on
residential-adjacent trucking routes exposes homes, schools, businesses
and residents to significant traffic pollution linked to increased risk of
respiratory diseases, such as asthma and heart disease. Of particular
danger is soot, which is indicative of diesel exhaust, a carcinogen
associated with lung cancer.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 23
AND WHEREAS according to a July 2018 study by University of Toronto
professors in collaboration with Environment and Climate Change
Canada, the Ontario Ministry of Environment, Conservation and Parks,
and Metro Vancouver, elevated levels of traffic pollution can be detected
as far as 250 metres from major roads, putting thousands of British
Columbians at risk of suffering serious health issues from living on or
near commercial transport (trucking) routes:
C. THAT, in Appendix A in the resolved clause, the following phrase be deleted “the
Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA) and”;
FURTHER THAT, at the end of the resolved clause, the words “major roads” be
deleted and replaced with following phrase “residential-adjacent commercial
transport routes.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05563)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05564)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. On June 19, 2019, Council passed a resolution calling for significant
strengthening of provincial and federal regulations restricting traffic pollution,
particularly of the particulates (soot) emitted by heavy trucks as well as requiring
fuel alternatives that significantly reduce pollution on major roads; and
2. Council agreed to forward a resolution to the next Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) and Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM)
meetings taking place later this year.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Mayor and Council submit the resolution as
attached as Appendix A of this motion as LMLGA and UBCM Resolutions: “Reducing
Truck Pollution on residential-adjacent commercial transport (trucking) routes”.
APPENDIX A
REDUCING TRUCK POLLUTION ON
RESIDENTIAL- ADJACENT COMMERCIAL City of Vancouver
TRANSPORT (TRUCKING) ROUTES
WHEREAS the high number of older, heavy-duty diesel trucks travelling on residential-adjacent
trucking routes exposes homes, schools, businesses and residents to significant traffic pollution
linked to increased risk of respiratory diseases, such as asthma and heart disease. Of particular
danger is soot, which is indicative of diesel exhaust, a carcinogen associated with lung cancer.
AND WHEREAS according to a July 2018 study by University of Toronto professors in
collaboration with Environment and Climate Change Canada, the Ontario Ministry of
Environment, Conservation and Parks, and Metro Vancouver, elevated levels of traffic pollution

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 24
can be detected as far as 250 metres from major roads, putting thousands of British Columbians
at risk of suffering serious health issues from living on or near commercial transport (trucking)
routes:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) lobby the
Provincial and Federal governments to significantly strengthen regulations restricting traffic
pollution, particularly of the particulates (soot) emitted by heavy-duty vehicles as well as
requiring fuel alternatives that significantly reduce pollution on residential-adjacent commercial
transport routes.
8. Universal No-Cost Coverage of Prescription Contraception
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. Cost is a significant barrier to people accessing contraception, particularly to
people with low incomes, youth, and people from marginalized communities;
2. Providing free prescription contraception has been shown to improve health
outcomes for parents and infants by reducing the risks associated with
unintended pregnancy, and is likely to reduce direct medical costs on the
provincial health system; and
3. Contraceptive methods targeted at men (such as condoms or vasectomies) are
available at low cost or are covered by BC’s Medical Services Plan, whereas
contraceptive methods for people with uteruses (such as birth control pills, intra-
uterine devices, or hormone injections) have high up-front costs, making access
to contraception unequal and gendered.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council directs the Mayor to urge the Provincial
Government to make all prescription contraception in BC available at no cost under the
Medical Services Plan.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion entitled "Universal No-Cost Coverage of Prescription Contraception”,
be referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
February 26, 2020, to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 25
9. B.C. Clean Kilometre Act for Ride Hailing Fleets
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS:
1. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has found that limiting global
warming to 1.5º C with no or limited overshoot would imply global net CO2
emissions dropping to between 50% and 58% below 2010 levels by 2030, and
between 94% and 107% below 2010 levels by 2050 – requiring ever more bold
GHG-reducing actions, including increasing the proportion of zero-emission
vehicles on B.C. roads; and
2. As of January 31, 2020, thirty-one local governments in B.C. voted to recognize a
global climate emergency and take local climate action, understanding the
biggest sources of Greenhouse Gas emissions by far are buildings and
transportation.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion as attached as Appendix A,
be forwarded by the City of Vancouver for consideration by the Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) at its May 6-8, 2020, Annual Conference and by the
Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September 21-25, 2020, Convention.
APPENDIX A
B.C. CLEAN KILOMETRE ACT FOR RIDE HAILING
City of Vancouver
FLEETS
WHEREAS Clean BC states that the province will prioritize reducing climate pollution by shifting
vehicles, homes, industry and business off burning fossil fuels and toward greater use of clean
B.C. electricity and other renewable energies, with a target of a 40% reduction in Greenhouse
Gas emissions over 2007 levels by 2030;
AND WHEREAS approximately 40% of GHG emissions in B.C. are due to vehicles, and shifting
to zero-emission vehicles will not only help the provincial and local governments meet
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission-reduction targets but also strengthen the economy, improve
air quality and public health, and reduce fuel costs for drivers:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the provincial government design and implement a BC
Clean Kilometre Act for Ride Hailing fleets (Transportation Network Services) that supports the
targets set in Clean BC and the IPPC report and requires ride hailing fleets to reduce their
emissions accordingly.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT this act be developed in consultation with the ride
hailing industry and local government representatives, recognizing there may be differences in
regional requirements based on availability of EV charging infrastructure.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 26
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council insert the phrase “and background information” after the words “following
motion” in the THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT.
FURTHER THAT Council join the two resolved clauses in Appendix A, and strike the
phrase “AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT” and replace with “and that”.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council add the words “and taxi fleets” after both mentions of “hailing fleets”.
withdrawn
Councillor Kirby-Yung requested to withdrawn the above amendment and Council so agreed.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 3:51 pm and reconvened at 3:55 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the words “and taxi fleets (Passenger Directed Vehicles)” be inserted after the
words “hailing fleets (Transportation Network Services)”;
FURTHER THAT the words “and taxi fleets” be inserted after the words “hailing fleets”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05565)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05556). Subsequently, the motion as amended was put
and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05567)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS:
1. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has found that limiting global
warming to 1.5º C with no or limited overshoot would imply global net CO2
emissions dropping to between 50% and 58% below 2010 levels by 2030, and
between 94% and 107% below 2010 levels by 2050 – requiring ever more bold

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 27
GHG-reducing actions, including increasing the proportion of zero-emission
vehicles on B.C. roads; and
2. As of January 31, 2020, thirty-one local governments in B.C. voted to recognize a
global climate emergency and take local climate action, understanding the
biggest sources of Greenhouse Gas emissions by far are buildings and
transportation.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion and background
information (attached as Appendix A), be forwarded by the City of Vancouver for
consideration by the Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA) at its May
6-8, 2020, Annual Conference and by the Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September
21-25, 2020, Convention.
APPENDIX A
B.C. CLEAN KILOMETRE ACT FOR RIDE HAILING FLEETS City of Vancouver
WHEREAS Clean BC states that the province will prioritize reducing climate pollution by shifting
vehicles, homes, industry and business off burning fossil fuels and toward greater use of clean
B.C. electricity and other renewable energies, with a target of a 40% reduction in Greenhouse
Gas emissions over 2007 levels by 2030;
AND WHEREAS approximately 40% of GHG emissions in B.C. are due to vehicles, and shifting
to zero-emission vehicles will not only help the provincial and local governments meet
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission-reduction targets but also strengthen the economy, improve
air quality and public health, and reduce fuel costs for drivers;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the provincial government design and implement a BC
Clean Kilometre Act for Ride Hailing fleets (Transportation Network Services) that supports the
targets set in Clean BC and the IPPC report and requires ride hailing fleets to reduce their
emissions accordingly and that this act be developed in consultation with the ride hailing
industry and local government representatives, recognizing there may be differences in regional
requirements based on availability of EV charging infrastructure.
Background information
B.C. CLEAN KILOMETRE ACT FOR RIDE HAILING FLEETS
Transportation is one of the biggest sources of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions province-
wide and in most B.C. local government jurisdictions. Ride-hailing causes increased traffic
congestion and GHG emissions1.
The Province is committed to reducing GHG emissions. As of January 31, 2020, thirty-one local
governments in B.C. voted to recognize a global climate emergency and increase their efforts to
reduce GHGs. Almost all of these local governments are within the provincial regional areas
1 A 2017 report by Bruce Schaller, former Deputy Commissioner for Traffic and Planning at New York
City’s Department of Transportation, noted that ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft have caused an
overall 160% increase in driving on U.S. cities’ streets, adding 5.7 billion miles of driving annually in the
Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle and Washington
DC metro areas.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 28
where ride-hailing is first being licensed, but ride-hailing could be licensed in all areas of the
province.
Local governments in B.C. cannot regulate ride-hailing fleets. Legislation in force since
September of 2019 gives the Province the sole authority to regulate Transportation Network
Services (ride-hailing companies).
California has passed a Clean Miles Standard that includes establishing a baseline for GHG
emissions from transportation network companies’ vehicles and annual GHG reduction targets
beginning in 2023. B.C. could enact similar legislation.
10. Provincial Tools for Building Energy Benchmarking
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. The Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) endorsed a resolution at its 2017
Convention requesting that the Province develop an energy benchmarking
program requiring that buildings above a size threshold benchmark their energy
performance and report this information to the province annually, and that the
resulting data be available to local governments to inform their climate policy and
programs;
2. The Provincial response to the UBCM was as follows:
The Province of British Columbia recognized that energy efficiency is one
of the lowest cost ways to reduce energy bills and greenhouse gas
emissions. As part of the five jurisdictions that make up the Pacific Coast
Collaborative, and as a contributor to the Pan Canadian Framework on
Clean Growth and Climate Change, the Province supports building
energy benchmarking as an important tool to achieve energy efficiency
and climate objectives for the built environment.
The Province continues to explore policy and program options in relation
to energy benchmarking for commercial and large multi-unit residential
buildings in BC.
3. While, to date, the Province has not established a Building Energy Benchmarking
program, the urgency has grown as local governments in BC develop plans to
reduce Greenhouse Gas (GhG) emissions in their jurisdictions in order to avoid
the worst impacts of accelerating global warming, and the need for particular
provincial tools has become clearer.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion as attached as Appendix A,
be forwarded by the City of Vancouver for consideration by the Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) at its May 6-8, 2020, Annual Conference and by the
Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September 21-25, 2020, Convention.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 29
APPENDIX A
PROVINCIAL TOOLS FOR BUILDING ENERGY
City of Vancouver
BENCHMARKING
WHEREAS the Province of BC has communicated support for a 2017 UBCM motion requesting
that the Province develop an energy benchmarking program requiring that buildings above a
size threshold benchmark their energy performance and report this information to the province
annually and that the resulting data be available to local governments to inform their climate
policy and programs, but not yet acted on that motion—leaving room for additional direction;
AND WHEREAS the urgency to implement measures to help reduce Greenhouse Gas (GhG)
emissions in the building sector has grown since the October 2018 Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) report verified that drastic reductions in GhG emissions are needed by
2030 in order to avert catastrophic climate change impacts, and increasing numbers of local
governments in BC (numbering 31 as of January 31, 2020) declare a global climate emergency
and develop bolder plans to mitigate accelerating climate change:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Union of B.C. Municipalities (UBCM) request that
the Province act on the 2017 UBCM motion for a building energy benchmark program within a
year;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the UBCM request of the Province that the program
include appropriate industry support tools to facilitate easy compliance, a benchmark data
management system accessible by local governments to help inform their industry engagement
and policy development, and plans and timelines for expanding the program to include other
building types.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT in the main resolved clause, the phrase “and that this Council motion be attached
as Background Information” be added to the end.
FURTHER THAT, in Appendix A, the two resolved clauses be combined into one by
deleting the phrase “AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the UBCM request of the
Province” and inserting “and”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05568)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05569)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. The Union of BC Municipalities (UBCM) endorsed a resolution at its 2017
Convention requesting that the Province develop an energy benchmarking

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 30
program requiring that buildings above a size threshold benchmark their energy
performance and report this information to the province annually, and that the
resulting data be available to local governments to inform their climate policy and
programs;
2. The Provincial response to the UBCM was as follows:
The Province of British Columbia recognized that energy efficiency is one
of the lowest cost ways to reduce energy bills and greenhouse gas
emissions. As part of the five jurisdictions that make up the Pacific Coast
Collaborative, and as a contributor to the Pan Canadian Framework on
Clean Growth and Climate Change, the Province supports building
energy benchmarking as an important tool to achieve energy efficiency
and climate objectives for the built environment.
The Province continues to explore policy and program options in relation
to energy benchmarking for commercial and large multi-unit residential
buildings in BC.
3. While, to date, the Province has not established a Building Energy Benchmarking
program, the urgency has grown as local governments in BC develop plans to
reduce Greenhouse Gas (GhG) emissions in their jurisdictions in order to avoid
the worst impacts of accelerating global warming, and the need for particular
provincial tools has become clearer.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion as attached as Appendix A,
be forwarded by the City of Vancouver for consideration by the Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) at its May 6-8, 2020, Annual Conference and by the
Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September 21-25, 2020, Convention and that this
Council motion be attached as Background Information.
APPENDIX A
PROVINCIAL TOOLS FOR BUILDING ENERGY
City of Vancouver
BENCHMARKING
WHEREAS the Province of BC has communicated support for a 2017 UBCM motion requesting
that the Province develop an energy benchmarking program requiring that buildings above a
size threshold benchmark their energy performance and report this information to the province
annually and that the resulting data be available to local governments to inform their climate
policy and programs, but not yet acted on that motion—leaving room for additional direction;
AND WHEREAS the urgency to implement measures to help reduce Greenhouse Gas (GhG)
emissions in the building sector has grown since the October 2018 Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) report verified that drastic reductions in GhG emissions are needed by
2030 in order to avert catastrophic climate change impacts, and increasing numbers of local
governments in BC (numbering 31 as of January 31, 2020) declare a global climate emergency
and develop bolder plans to mitigate accelerating climate change:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Union of B.C. Municipalities (UBCM) request that
the Province act on the 2017 UBCM motion for a building energy benchmark program within a

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 31
year and that the UBCM request of the Province that the program include appropriate industry
support tools to facilitate easy compliance, a benchmark data management system accessible
by local governments to help inform their industry engagement and policy development, and
plans and timelines for expanding the program to include other building types.
11. Re-Examining Municipal Pension Plan Divestment
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS the motion: City of Vancouver Responsible Divestment From Fossil Fuels,
passed unanimously by Council on January 21, 2020, directed staff to bring a motion to
Council for the 2020 meetings of the Lower Mainland Local Government Association
(LMLGA) and the Union of B.C. Municipalities (UBCM) to re-examine the 2016 UBCM
Primer on Fossil Fuel Divestment and the Municipal Pension Plan report, in light of
globally changing investment and divestment strategies.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion, attached as Appendix A,
be forwarded by the City of Vancouver for consideration by the Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) at its May 6-8, 2020 Annual Conference and by the
Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September 21-25, 2020 Convention.
APPENDIX A
RE-EXAMINING MUNICIPAL PENSION PLAN
City of Vancouver
DIVESTMENT
WHEREAS since 2016, when the UBCM report, Primer on Fossil Fuel Divestment and the
Municipal Pension Plan noted that “Divestment may compromise our investment strategy,
increase risks and costs, and negatively affect our clients’ investment returns”, there have been
major shifts in global climate science and investment strategies.
The October 2018 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report verified that
global warming is accelerating, with a window of little more than a decade to drastically reduce
Greenhouse Gas emissions to avert catastrophic climate change impacts.
Since 2016, divestment has accelerated. In 2014, global funds committed to fossil fuel
divestment was $52 billion. In 2018: $8 trillion. In 2019: $11 trillion, including pension funds such
as Caisse, Quebec, Quebec’s equivalent to B.C.’s pension fund manager, whose CEO stated:
“There are going to be stranded assets associated with climate change…we think it’s good risk
management to, over time, exit those”;
AND WHEREAS evidence is growing that fossil fuel-free funds are outperforming fossil fuel
investments. The 2019 return on the B.C. Government Employees Union’s fossil fuel-free
investments, for example, was 21.7 percent:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Union of B.C. Municipalities (UBCM) re-examine
and update its 2016 Primer on Fossil Fuel Divestment and the Municipal Pension Plan report in
light of globally changing investment and divestment strategies;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the UBCM inform B.C. Investment Management
Corporation, as the provider of investment management services for B.C.’s Municipal Pension

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 32
Plan, of the concerns of the UBCM regarding the growing financial risks related to investing in
fossil fuels and its support for a plan, built on leading practices related to fossil fuel-free
investment portfolios, to fully divest Municipal Pension Plan funds from fossil fuels.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT in the main resolution, the phrase “together with, as Background Information, the
complete original motion of January 21, 2020, including the Whereas’,” be inserted after
the words “City of Vancouver” and before the words “for consideration”:
FURTHER THAT, in Appendix A, the two resolved clauses be combined into one and
the phrase “AND FURTHER BE IT RESOLVED THAT the UBCM” be deleted and
replaced with “and”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05570)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05571)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS the motion: City of Vancouver Responsible Divestment From Fossil Fuels,
passed unanimously by Council on January 21, 2020, directed staff to bring a motion to
Council for the 2020 meetings of the Lower Mainland Local Government Association
(LMLGA) and the Union of B.C. Municipalities (UBCM) to re-examine the 2016 UBCM
Primer on Fossil Fuel Divestment and the Municipal Pension Plan report, in light of
globally changing investment and divestment strategies.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion, attached as Appendix A,
be forwarded by the City of Vancouver together with, as Background Information, the
complete original motion of January 21, 2020, including the Whereas’, for consideration
by the Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA) at its May 6-8, 2020
Annual Conference and by the Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September 21-25, 2020
Convention.
APPENDIX A
RE-EXAMINING MUNICIPAL PENSION PLAN
City of Vancouver
DIVESTMENT
WHEREAS since 2016, when the UBCM report, Primer on Fossil Fuel Divestment and the
Municipal Pension Plan noted that “Divestment may compromise our investment strategy,
increase risks and costs, and negatively affect our clients’ investment returns”, there have been
major shifts in global climate science and investment strategies.
The October 2018 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report verified that
global warming is accelerating, with a window of little more than a decade to drastically reduce
Greenhouse Gas emissions to avert catastrophic climate change impacts.
Since 2016, divestment has accelerated. In 2014, global funds committed to fossil fuel

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 33
divestment was $52 billion. In 2018: $8 trillion. In 2019: $11 trillion, including pension funds such
as Caisse, Quebec, Quebec’s equivalent to B.C.’s pension fund manager, whose CEO stated:
“There are going to be stranded assets associated with climate change…we think it’s good risk
management to, over time, exit those”;
AND WHEREAS evidence is growing that fossil fuel-free funds are outperforming fossil fuel
investments. The 2019 return on the B.C. Government Employees Union’s fossil fuel-free
investments, for example, was 21.7 percent:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Union of B.C. Municipalities (UBCM) re-examine
and update its 2016 Primer on Fossil Fuel Divestment and the Municipal Pension Plan report in
light of globally changing investment and divestment strategies and inform B.C. Investment
Management Corporation, as the provider of investment management services for B.C.’s
Municipal Pension Plan, of the concerns of the UBCM regarding the growing financial risks
related to investing in fossil fuels and its support for a plan, built on leading practices related to
fossil fuel-free investment portfolios, to fully divest Municipal Pension Plan funds from fossil
fuels.
12. Provincial Enabling of Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) Financing by
Local Governments
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver’s Greenest City Action Plan 2010-2020 recognizes existing buildings
as the city’s single biggest source of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and
includes energy retrofitting of existing buildings as a major priority; and
2. In January of 2019, the City of Vancouver declared a Climate Emergency and, in
April of 2019, approved both a Climate Emergency Response plan and a plan for
Building Retrofits for Deep Carbon Reductions that identify the need for financial
incentives to enable the needed deep emission retrofits of buildings in order to
meet the city’s GHG reduction goals.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion, attached as Appendix A,
be forwarded by the City of Vancouver for consideration by the Lower Mainland Local
Government Association (LMLGA) at its May 6-8, 2020 Annual Conference and by the
Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September 21-25, 2020 Convention.
APPENDIX A
PROVINCIAL ENABLING OF PROPERTY ASSESSED
CLEAN ENERGY (PACE) FINANCING BY LOCAL City of Vancouver
GOVERNMENTS
WHEREAS local governments in British Columbia, including 31 local governments that have
declared a Climate Emergency, are considering how to most effectively support members of
their communities in actions to mitigate climate change, especially regarding Greenhouse Gas

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 34
(GHG) emissions from buildings, which account for over 50% of Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
emissions in many communities;
AND WHEREAS many smaller commercial building owners and operators encounter financial
barriers to energy and emissions retrofits due to high debt loads, competing needs for other
capital improvements, split incentives between building operators who must invest in energy
efficiency improvements and their tenants who benefit from the lower energy bills, as well as by
the longer payback periods that deep energy and emissions retrofits often require to be
profitable;
AND WHEREAS there is a growing interest by investors to put their capital to work solving
society’s challenges, such as climate change, while earning a reasonable return on investment.
In the United States, in 2017 and 2018 there has been nearly a billion dollars of third party
private investment in Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy Financing (C-PACE);
AND WHEREAS similar challenges will be encountered by many private building owners
seeking to renovate their properties to improve their seismic resilience:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the UBCM request that the Province update the
Vancouver and Community Charters to enable B.C. local or regional governments to establish
Property Assessed Clean Energy Financing programs and to explore the potential of enabling a
similar mechanism for seismic resilience retrofits.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT in the main motion, the phrase “and background information” be added after the
words “the following motion”, and before the words “be forwarded”:
FURTHER THAT, in Appendix A, the WHEREAS clauses be struck and replaced with the
following:
WHEREAS local governments in British Columbia are considering how to most
effectively support members of their communities in actions to mitigate climate
change, especially to reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from buildings,
which account for over 50% of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions in many
communities, but are challenged by the fact that the vast majority of buildings are
privately owned and most building owners face financial barriers to energy and
emission-reducing retrofits.
AND WHEREAS there is a reluctance by the Province to pursue public financing
mechanisms for private buildings but rapidly growing interest by private investors, to
put their capital to work solving challenges, such as climate change, while earning a
reasonable return on investment—as evidenced by the $11 trillion in funds being
divested globally from fossil fuels in 2019 and nearly a billion dollars of third party
private investment in Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy Financing (C-
PACE) in the United States in 2017 and 2018.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 35
AND FURTHER THAT, in Appendix A in the resolved clause, the following phrase be
struck “and to explore the potential of enabling a similar mechanism for seismic resilience
retrofits”, and replaced with “that include accessing third party private investment.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05572)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05574)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver’s Greenest City Action Plan 2010-2020 recognizes existing buildings
as the city’s single biggest source of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and
includes energy retrofitting of existing buildings as a major priority; and
2. In January of 2019, the City of Vancouver declared a Climate Emergency and, in
April of 2019, approved both a Climate Emergency Response plan and a plan for
Building Retrofits for Deep Carbon Reductions that identify the need for financial
incentives to enable the needed deep emission retrofits of buildings in order to
meet the city’s GHG reduction goals.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the following motion and background
information, (attached as Appendix A), be forwarded by the City of Vancouver for
consideration by the Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA) at its May
6-8, 2020 Annual Conference and by the Union of B.C. Municipalities at its September
21-25, 2020 Convention.
APPENDIX A
PROVINCIAL ENABLING OF PROPERTY ASSESSED
CLEAN ENERGY (PACE) FINANCING BY LOCAL City of Vancouver
GOVERNMENTS
WHEREAS local governments in British Columbia are considering how to most effectively
support members of their communities in actions to mitigate climate change, especially to
reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from buildings, which account for over 50% of
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions in many communities, but are challenged by the fact that the
vast majority of buildings are privately owned and most building owners face financial barriers to
energy and emission-reducing retrofits;
AND WHEREAS there is a reluctance by the Province to pursue public financing mechanisms
for private buildings but rapidly growing interest by private investors to put their capital to work
solving challenges such as climate change, while earning a reasonable return on investment—
as evidenced by the $11 trillion in funds being divested globally from fossil fuels in 2019 and
nearly a billion dollars of third party private investment in Commercial Property Assessed Clean
Energy Financing (C-PACE) in the United States in 2017 and 2018.

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 36
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the UBCM request that the Province update the
Vancouver and Community Charters to enable B.C. local or regional governments to establish
Property Assessed Clean Energy Financing programs that include accessing third party private
investment.
Background Information
Provincial Enabling of Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) Financing by Local
Governments
The UBCM previously passed two resolutions on PACE financing of energy retrofits for home
owners which focused on local improvement financing mechanisms for energy efficiency and
renewable energy improvements on residential and commercial private properties. The
Province of B.C.’s response was to not take the idea forward “given the complexity and
fundamental policy questions that the LIC (Local Improvement Charge) approach raises (most
specifically related to public borrowing for private acquisitions).
Third party private investment funds have grown exponentially in recent years as divestment
from fossil fuels has accelerated from $52 billion in 2014 to $11 trillion in 2019. These are
potential sources of third party financing for energy retrofits.
The affordability crisis has also grown exponentially in many B.C. communities, for
homeowners, renters, small businesses. Many owners of smaller commercial building and older
multi-unit rental buildings encounter financial barriers to energy retrofits due to high debt loads,
competing needs for other capital improvements and inability to benefit directly from energy
efficiency improvements, although their tenants benefit from the lower energy bills. Yet,
retrofitting these older buildings, which frequently provide the most affordable rental housing
and commercial spaces, would greatly ease the affordability crisis.
13. Discriminatory Covenants, Language and Encumbrances on Vancouver Land
Titles
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms Section 15 (1) states that “Every
individual is equal before and under the law and has the right to the equal
protection and equal benefit of the law without discrimination and, in particular,
without discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion,
sex, age or mental or physical disability”;
2. Land titles in the City of Vancouver are known to contain historical covenants,
language, and encumbrances that are now void, which previously restricted the
sale, ownership, occupation or use of land on the basis of sex, race, creed,
colour, nationality, ancestry or place of origin of a person;
3. Section 222 of British Columbia’s Land Title Act specifies that covenants that
restrict the sale, ownership, occupation or use of land on account of sex, race,

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 37
creed, colour, nationality, ancestry or place of origin of a person are void and of
no effect. Section 222 was enacted in 1978 and operates against any registered
covenant that directly or indirectly has a discriminating effect, whenever
registered and in whatever form created;
4. Although discriminatory clauses and covenants in land titles are void and of no
effect, documents obtained during land title searches (e.g. as part of a property
sale) often include discriminatory clauses and/or covenants registered prior to
1978; especially for properties that have not changed hands for several decades
and consequently haven’t been updated by the land title office;
5. The following examples of discriminatory covenants and clauses from various
British Columbia land titles are illustrative of the historical language and text that
remains on many land titles:
• “That no Oriental shall be allowed to purchase the within described property.”
(Kitchener Street, Vancouver East Side: placed on the land in 1931);
• “AND WHEREAS the Grantor and Grantee have agreed that as a term of
such sale, no Asiatic, Negro or Indian shall have the right or be allowed to
own, become tenant of or occupy any part of [the property].” (South
Vancouver, in close proximity to Point Grey Golf and Country Club);
• “that the Grantee or his heirs, administrators, executor, successors or assigns
will not sell to, agree to sell to, rent to, lease to, or permit or allow to occupy,
the said lands and premises, or any part thereof, any person of the Chinese,
Japanese or other Asiatic race or to any Indian or Negro.” (Vancouver, B.C.);
6. Property owners can submit requests to the Land Title and Survey Authority
(LTSA) registrar in New Westminster to have discriminatory covenants removed.
The registrar is authorized to take action with respect to Section 222 of the Land
Title Act and will amend the register and records to reflect that the covenants are
not valid. The registrar will indicate on the original document that the covenant
has been cancelled as per the Land Title Act, s. 222. There is no customer fee
for cancellation of a discriminating covenant;
7. Although covenants that restrict the sale, ownership, occupation or use of land
on account of sex, race, creed, colour, nationality, ancestry or place of origin of a
person are void and of no effect, these restrictive covenants are not and have not
been, automatically, routinely, or systematically removed from land titles.
Typically, these discriminatory covenants are only removed from a land title
record when they are brought to the attention of the land title office by a property
owner;
a. note: Removal of a racist covenant does not rewrite history. For example,
three students from the Alberni School District recently worked with the Land
Title and Survey Authority of British Columbia to remove a discriminatory
covenant on a local property dating from 1909 (pursuant to S.222 of the Land
Title Act). On the original document, lines were drawn by the registrar through

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 38
the racial covenant and a statement was added stating that the covenant has
been removed, along with the date of its removal, to advise future owners;
8. In recent decades, all orders of government in Canada (federal, provincial, and
municipal) have taken steps to formally apologize for past discrimination against
various groups and have embarked upon a number of processes and actions in
support of reconciliation. The following are illustrative examples:
a. In 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper on behalf of the Government of
Canada, issued a formal apology to Chinese Canadians for the race-based
Chinese Head Tax and for the exclusion of Chinese immigrants to Canada
from 1923 to 1947.
b. In 2008, Prime Minister Harper apologized to former students of Indian
residential schools for Canada’s role in the system, which separated over
150,000 Aboriginal children from their families and communities.
c. In 2010, the City of New Westminster was the first municipality in Canada to
formally acknowledge and apologize to the Chinese community for past
practices which resulted in discrimination and exclusion. This
acknowledgement and apology was part of ten steps and actions in support
of reconciliation, which were based on a process of comprehensive research
and consultation.
d. On May 15, 2014, Premier Christy Clark issued a formal apology to Chinese
Canadians on behalf the entire B.C. Legislature for the historical wrongs
imposed on them by past provincial governments.
e. On May 18, 2016, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau formally apologized in the
House of Commons for the Komagata Maru incident in 1914 in which
hundreds of Sikh, Muslim, and Hindu passengers were denied entry to
Canada and forced to return to an uncertain and ultimately violent fate in
India.
9. On November 1, 2017, Vancouver City Council received a report summarizing
historical discrimination against Chinese people in Vancouver and unanimously
supported the recommendations contained therein. The report noted that “The
key learning from the initiative is to ensure that this history will not repeat and we
remain vigilant in upholding the values of equity, justice and well-being for all”;
a. note: in 1941, when a young Chinese Canadian couple tried to buy property
in West Point Grey, various white community leaders and associations
reportedly mobilized and canvassed hard to prohibit the sale. Aldermen
Halford Wilson and Henry DeGreaves are said to have headed a proposal
that “Council appoint a special committee to draft a by-law that would prevent
‘Orientals’ from being either tenants or owners in areas other than ‘their own
localities”;
10. As noted in the November 2017, Council Report, the preliminary research
summarizing historical discrimination against Chinese people in Vancouver

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 39
identified four thematic areas, one of which was “segregation in housing and
public space”;
11. In April 2018, the City of Vancouver formally apologized to Chinese Canadians
for historical discriminatory legislation, regulations, and policies that discriminated
against residents of Chinese descent, and noted that “Through the process of
reconciliation we consolidate and embrace our firm beliefs and values of being
an inclusive community; one that embraces our collective human rights and
prepares us to be proactive in preventing discrimination”; and
12. Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver continue to embrace collective
human rights and the values of an inclusive community and are committed to
remaining vigilant in upholding the values of equity, justice, and well-being for all
to ensure that we learn from the past, and that we remain proactive in preventing
discrimination.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirms that covenants, or portion of covenants, language, clauses,
and other encumbrances that historically restricted the sale, ownership,
occupation, or use of land based on the sex, race, creed, colour, nationality,
ancestry, or place of origin of a person are void and of no effect in the City of
Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT Council affirms the City’s commitment to collective human
rights and the values of an inclusive community that supports the values of
equity, justice, and well-being for all, and to ensuring we learn from the past and
remain proactive in preventing incidents of discrimination.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back on past and current actions the City of
Vancouver has taken to address the question of discriminatory covenants and
language recorded in land titles for properties within the boundaries of the City of
Vancouver, and to identify and bring forward recommendations for any additional
work that should be taken including working with the Land Title and Survey
Authority of BC to explore options to systematically and proactively identify and
strike discriminatory covenants and language from Vancouver land titles
(including appropriate indications on original / historical documents that a
discriminatory covenant or encumbrance has been cancelled as per Section 222
of the Land Title Act).
C. THAT Vancouver City Council endorse the recent motion passed by West
Vancouver Council to address the issue of discriminatory covenants and
language in land titles, including their call for senior orders of government to
examine the history of discriminatory covenants in the Province with the
cooperation of academics and non-profit organizations active in this area;
FURTHER THAT the Mayor convey Council’s endorsement of West Vancouver’s
recent action to the Mayor and Council of West Vancouver by letter, with copies
to be sent to the Mayors and Councils of all 21 municipalities, one Electoral Area,

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 40
and one Treaty First Nation that make up Metro Vancouver and a further copy to
the Union of BC Municipalities.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT in C, the phrase “endorse the recent motion passed by West Vancouver Council”
be deleted and replaced with “intends to”.
FURTHER THAT in C, the word “their” be deleted and replaced with “a”
AND FURTHER THAT in the FURTHER THAT clause, the phrase “endorsement of
West Vancouver’s recent action” be replaced with the word “intention”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05575)
(Councillors Dominato and Swanson absent for the vote)
Prior to the vote, Council agreed to separate the components of the motion as amended, with B
having CARRIED (Vote No. 05577) with Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson and Mayor
Stewart opposed, and A and C having CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05578).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms Section 15 (1) states that “Every
individual is equal before and under the law and has the right to the equal
protection and equal benefit of the law without discrimination and, in particular,
without discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion,
sex, age or mental or physical disability”;
2. Land titles in the City of Vancouver are known to contain historical covenants,
language, and encumbrances that are now void, which previously restricted the
sale, ownership, occupation or use of land on the basis of sex, race, creed,
colour, nationality, ancestry or place of origin of a person;
3. Section 222 of British Columbia’s Land Title Act specifies that covenants that
restrict the sale, ownership, occupation or use of land on account of sex, race,
creed, colour, nationality, ancestry or place of origin of a person are void and of
no effect. Section 222 was enacted in 1978 and operates against any registered
covenant that directly or indirectly has a discriminating effect, whenever
registered and in whatever form created;
4. Although discriminatory clauses and covenants in land titles are void and of no
effect, documents obtained during land title searches (e.g. as part of a property
sale) often include discriminatory clauses and/or covenants registered prior to
1978; especially for properties that have not changed hands for several decades
and consequently haven’t been updated by the land title office;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 41
5. The following examples of discriminatory covenants and clauses from various
British Columbia land titles are illustrative of the historical language and text that
remains on many land titles:
• “That no Oriental shall be allowed to purchase the within described property.”
(Kitchener Street, Vancouver East Side: placed on the land in 1931);
• “AND WHEREAS the Grantor and Grantee have agreed that as a term of
such sale, no Asiatic, Negro or Indian shall have the right or be allowed to
own, become tenant of or occupy any part of [the property].” (South
Vancouver, in close proximity to Point Grey Golf and Country Club);
• “that the Grantee or his heirs, administrators, executor, successors or assigns
will not sell to, agree to sell to, rent to, lease to, or permit or allow to occupy,
the said lands and premises, or any part thereof, any person of the Chinese,
Japanese or other Asiatic race or to any Indian or Negro.” (Vancouver, B.C.);
6. Property owners can submit requests to the Land Title and Survey Authority
(LTSA) registrar in New Westminster to have discriminatory covenants removed.
The registrar is authorized to take action with respect to Section 222 of the Land
Title Act and will amend the register and records to reflect that the covenants are
not valid. The registrar will indicate on the original document that the covenant
has been cancelled as per the Land Title Act, s. 222. There is no customer fee
for cancellation of a discriminating covenant;
7. Although covenants that restrict the sale, ownership, occupation or use of land
on account of sex, race, creed, colour, nationality, ancestry or place of origin of a
person are void and of no effect, these restrictive covenants are not and have not
been, automatically, routinely, or systematically removed from land titles.
Typically, these discriminatory covenants are only removed from a land title
record when they are brought to the attention of the land title office by a property
owner;
a. note: Removal of a racist covenant does not rewrite history. For example,
three students from the Alberni School District recently worked with the Land
Title and Survey Authority of British Columbia to remove a discriminatory
covenant on a local property dating from 1909 (pursuant to S.222 of the Land
Title Act). On the original document, lines were drawn by the registrar through
the racial covenant and a statement was added stating that the covenant has
been removed, along with the date of its removal, to advise future owners;
8. In recent decades, all orders of government in Canada (federal, provincial, and
municipal) have taken steps to formally apologize for past discrimination against
various groups and have embarked upon a number of processes and actions in
support of reconciliation. The following are illustrative examples:
a. In 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper on behalf of the Government of
Canada, issued a formal apology to Chinese Canadians for the race-based

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 42
Chinese Head Tax and for the exclusion of Chinese immigrants to Canada
from 1923 to 1947.
b. In 2008, Prime Minister Harper apologized to former students of Indian
residential schools for Canada’s role in the system, which separated over
150,000 Aboriginal children from their families and communities.
c. In 2010, the City of New Westminster was the first municipality in Canada to
formally acknowledge and apologize to the Chinese community for past
practices which resulted in discrimination and exclusion. This
acknowledgement and apology was part of ten steps and actions in support
of reconciliation, which were based on a process of comprehensive research
and consultation.
d. On May 15, 2014, Premier Christy Clark issued a formal apology to Chinese
Canadians on behalf the entire B.C. Legislature for the historical wrongs
imposed on them by past provincial governments.
e. On May 18, 2016, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau formally apologized in the
House of Commons for the Komagata Maru incident in 1914 in which
hundreds of Sikh, Muslim, and Hindu passengers were denied entry to
Canada and forced to return to an uncertain and ultimately violent fate in
India.
9. On November 1, 2017, Vancouver City Council received a report summarizing
historical discrimination against Chinese people in Vancouver and unanimously
supported the recommendations contained therein. The report noted that “The
key learning from the initiative is to ensure that this history will not repeat and we
remain vigilant in upholding the values of equity, justice and well-being for all”;
a. note: in 1941, when a young Chinese Canadian couple tried to buy property
in West Point Grey, various white community leaders and associations
reportedly mobilized and canvassed hard to prohibit the sale. Aldermen
Halford Wilson and Henry DeGreaves are said to have headed a proposal
that “Council appoint a special committee to draft a by-law that would prevent
‘Orientals’ from being either tenants or owners in areas other than ‘their own
localities”;
10. As noted in the November 2017, Council Report, the preliminary research
summarizing historical discrimination against Chinese people in Vancouver
identified four thematic areas, one of which was “segregation in housing and
public space”;
11. In April 2018, the City of Vancouver formally apologized to Chinese Canadians
for historical discriminatory legislation, regulations, and policies that discriminated
against residents of Chinese descent, and noted that “Through the process of
reconciliation we consolidate and embrace our firm beliefs and values of being
an inclusive community; one that embraces our collective human rights and
prepares us to be proactive in preventing discrimination”; and

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 43
12. Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver continue to embrace collective
human rights and the values of an inclusive community and are committed to
remaining vigilant in upholding the values of equity, justice, and well-being for all
to ensure that we learn from the past, and that we remain proactive in preventing
discrimination.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirms that covenants, or portion of covenants, language, clauses,
and other encumbrances that historically restricted the sale, ownership,
occupation, or use of land based on the sex, race, creed, colour, nationality,
ancestry, or place of origin of a person are void and of no effect in the City of
Vancouver;
FURTHER THAT Council affirms the City’s commitment to collective human
rights and the values of an inclusive community that supports the values of
equity, justice, and well-being for all, and to ensuring we learn from the past and
remain proactive in preventing incidents of discrimination.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back on past and current actions the City of
Vancouver has taken to address the question of discriminatory covenants and
language recorded in land titles for properties within the boundaries of the City of
Vancouver, and to identify and bring forward recommendations for any additional
work that should be taken including working with the Land Title and Survey
Authority of BC to explore options to systematically and proactively identify and
strike discriminatory covenants and language from Vancouver land titles
(including appropriate indications on original / historical documents that a
discriminatory covenant or encumbrance has been cancelled as per Section 222
of the Land Title Act).
C. THAT Vancouver City Council intends to address the issue of discriminatory
covenants and language in land titles, including a call for senior orders of
government to examine the history of discriminatory covenants in the Province
with the cooperation of academics and non-profit organizations active in this
area;
FURTHER THAT the Mayor convey Council’s intention to the Mayor and Council
of West Vancouver by letter, with copies to be sent to the Mayors and Councils of
all 21 municipalities, one Electoral Area, and one Treaty First Nation that make
up Metro Vancouver and a further copy to the Union of BC Municipalities.
14. Unintended Consequences: Reconsideration of a Council Direction That May
Affect Housing in the City of Vancouver
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
WHEREAS
1. On November 26, 2019, Council adopted a resolution directing staff to prepare a

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 44
report for consideration for referral to public hearing to amend the Rental
Housing Stock Official Development Plan to extend rental replacement
requirements to the C-2, C-2C, C-2B and C-2B-1 zoning districts;
2. The motion was moved and adopted without consulting land owners in these
zoning districts, and, if enacted, the proposed by-law will have significant impacts
on the land and development rights of these owners;
3. The Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan already covers
approximately 80% of purpose-built rental housing in the City;
4. The C-2 zoning districts account for only 4% of purpose-built rental units in the
City, and the vast majority of these buildings are not rental apartments, but
include a few rental units above the commercial shops (e.g. units for shop
owners to live above businesses); and
5. There has been no net loss of rental units in the C-2 zones, but a net gain of 420
rental units in C-2 zoned areas over the last decade.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council rescind the resolution regarding
extending the Rental Housing Stock ODP to the C-2 zoning districts, adopted at the
November 26, 2019, meeting (Vote No. 05196);
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to continue to monitor the rental housing stock in
C-2 areas, and report out on the overall net gain or loss of rental housing, and the
implementation of the TRPP and tracking of tenant impacts (eg. displacement due to
lack of right of first refusal) as part of the Annual Progress Report in Q2 of 2020.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the motion entitled " Unintended Consequences: Reconsideration of a Council
Direction That May Affect Housing in the City of Vancouver”, be referred to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on February 26, 2020, to hear from
speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 45
15. Toward Best Practices in Civic Governance: Clarifying Council’s Role as an
Elected Board
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
WHEREAS
1. Section 6 of the Vancouver Charter states that the inhabitants within the defined
physical boundaries of Vancouver are “a corporation and a municipality with the
name of City of Vancouver.”;
2. Municipalities and regional districts in British Columbia (B.C.) are represented by
elected officials who exercise the powers and perform the obligations of the local
government with input from staff and citizens;
3. A board of directors is a governing body typically defined as an elected group of
individuals who variously represent the shareholders, members, or constituents
of a defined group and meet at regular intervals to set policies for corporate
management and oversight;
4. Boards make decisions of a fiduciary nature on behalf of their shareholders,
members, or constituents. Responsibilities that generally fall under a board's
purview typically include the setting executive compensation, setting policies and
broad goals, and ensuring the company or organization has adequate, well-
managed resources at its disposal;
5. Governance systems set the parameters under which management and
administrative systems operate;2
6. In B.C., local government decisions are the responsibility of the local
government’s governing body – for municipalities, a council comprising a mayor
and councillors and for regional districts, a board comprising electoral area
directors and directors from member municipalities and, in some cases, Treaty
First Nations;
2
The concept of governance refers to structures and processes designed to ensure accountability,
transparency, responsiveness, rule of law, stability, equity and inclusiveness, empowerment, and broad-
based participation. Governance also represents the norms, values and rules of the game through which
public affairs are managed in a manner that is transparent, participatory, inclusive and responsive (see
UNESCO International Bureau of Education Technical Notes:
http://www.ibe.unesco.org/en/geqaf/technical-notes/concept-governance).

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 46
7. Under the definitions in Chapter 1 of the Local Government Act, “local
government” means (a) the council of a municipality, and (b) the board of a
regional district;
8. Municipalities and regional districts in B.C. are empowered by provincial
legislation to govern in a wide range of areas. Local government governance and
powers focus specifically on how municipal councils and regional district board of
directors organize, operate, provide services and make themselves accountable
to their communities;
9. Local government administration in B.C. refers to the staff and other resources
needed to provide these functions. Local government administrative staff
implement the direction and decisions set by municipal councils and regional
district boards;
10. Based on the definitions in Chapter 1 of the Local Government Act, which states
that “local government” means (a) the council of a municipality and (b) the board
of a regional district, a reasonably minded person would commonly understand
that the Council of a municipality and the Board of a regional district are cognates
and that, for all intents and purposes, the Council of a municipality serves the
same purposes and functions of a Board;
11. Various occupations and professions have professional and other practice
standards and/or a code of ethics they must adhere to which may require
practitioners to report to an organization’s Senior Management and/or its Board.
For example, the Institute of Internal Auditors – an international professional
association serving the internal audit profession – has a Performance Standard
2060 (i.e., Reporting to Senior Management and the Board) which requires a
chief audit executive to report periodically to senior management and the board
regarding the internal audit activity’s purpose, authority, responsibility, and
performance relative to its plan as well as its conformance with the association’s
Code of Ethics and the Standards.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to clarify
Council’s role as an Elected Board for those areas, circumstances, and situations where
Elected Board status might naturally or potentially apply, such as for City employees or
employee groups whose employment with the City falls within an occupational or
professional group category that carries with it Practice Standards and/or a Code of
Ethics requiring periodic reporting to the Board of the organization they serve, and for
staff to report back to Council no later than the Fall of 2020;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to compile and include – as part of their report back to
Council – a list of occupational and professional groups employed and/or working within
the City of Vancouver that have, or may potentially have, Practice Standards and/or a
Code of Ethics requiring, or potentially requiring, periodic reporting to the Board of the
organization they serve, including information regarding any corresponding duties and
obligations of a Board for each occupational or professional group category so noted.
amended

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 47
* * * * *
At 4:56 pm, during debate on Item 15, it was,
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council extend past 5:00 pm, in order to complete Notice of Council Members
Motions and New Business.
CARRIED
(Councillor Kirby-Yung opposed to the vote)
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT in the first resolved clause, the phrase “direct staff” be replaced with “refer this
work to the yet to be formed office of the Auditor General”.
FURTHER THAT the phrase “no later than the Fall of 2020” be replaced with “as part of
its workplan”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05579)
(Councillors Dominato, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillors De Genova and Hardwick abstained)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 05580) with Councillor Boyle in opposition and Councillors De Genova and Hardwick
abstaining from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
WHEREAS
1. Section 6 of the Vancouver Charter states that the inhabitants within the defined
physical boundaries of Vancouver are “a corporation and a municipality with the
name of City of Vancouver.”;
2. Municipalities and regional districts in British Columbia (B.C.) are represented by
elected officials who exercise the powers and perform the obligations of the local
government with input from staff and citizens;
3. A board of directors is a governing body typically defined as an elected group of
individuals who variously represent the shareholders, members, or constituents
of a defined group and meet at regular intervals to set policies for corporate
management and oversight;

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 48
4. Boards make decisions of a fiduciary nature on behalf of their shareholders,
members, or constituents. Responsibilities that generally fall under a board's
purview typically include the setting executive compensation, setting policies and
broad goals, and ensuring the company or organization has adequate, well-
managed resources at its disposal;
5. Governance systems set the parameters under which management and
administrative systems operate;1
6. In B.C., local government decisions are the responsibility of the local
government’s governing body – for municipalities, a council comprising a mayor
and councillors and for regional districts, a board comprising electoral area
directors and directors from member municipalities and, in some cases, Treaty
First Nations;
7. Under the definitions in Chapter 1 of the Local Government Act, “local
government” means (a) the council of a municipality, and (b) the board of a
regional district;
8. Municipalities and regional districts in B.C. are empowered by provincial
legislation to govern in a wide range of areas. Local government governance and
powers focus specifically on how municipal councils and regional district board of
directors organize, operate, provide services and make themselves accountable
to their communities;
9. Local government administration in B.C. refers to the staff and other resources
needed to provide these functions. Local government administrative staff
implement the direction and decisions set by municipal councils and regional
district boards;
10. Based on the definitions in Chapter 1 of the Local Government Act, which states
that “local government” means (a) the council of a municipality and (b) the board
of a regional district, a reasonably minded person would commonly understand
that the Council of a municipality and the Board of a regional district are cognates
and that, for all intents and purposes, the Council of a municipality serves the
same purposes and functions of a Board;
11. Various occupations and professions have professional and other practice
standards and/or a code of ethics they must adhere to which may require
practitioners to report to an organization’s Senior Management and/or its Board.
For example, the Institute of Internal Auditors – an international professional
association serving the internal audit profession – has a Performance Standard
2060 (i.e., Reporting to Senior Management and the Board) which requires a
chief audit executive to report periodically to senior management and the board
regarding the internal audit activity’s purpose, authority, responsibility, and
performance relative to its plan as well as its conformance with the association’s
Code of Ethics and the Standards.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council refer this work to the yet
to be formed office of the Auditor General to clarify Council’s role as an Elected Board for

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 49
those areas, circumstances, and situations where Elected Board status might naturally
or potentially apply, such as for City employees or employee groups whose employment
with the City falls within an occupational or professional group category that carries with
it Practice Standards and/or a Code of Ethics requiring periodic reporting to the Board of
the organization they serve, and for staff to report back to Council as part of its work
plan;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to compile and include – as part of their report back to
Council – a list of occupational and professional groups employed and/or working within
the City of Vancouver that have, or may potentially have, Practice Standards and/or a
Code of Ethics requiring, or potentially requiring, periodic reporting to the Board of the
organization they serve, including information regarding any corresponding duties and
obligations of a Board for each occupational or professional group category so noted.
NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEMBER’S MOTIONS
1. Safety for Residents with Precarious Status: Delivering Access without Fear
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
2. Affirming Support for Residents of Indian Origin Regardless of Religion or Caste
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
3. Developing an AllOnBoard and Raise a Reader Pilot
Councillor Swanson submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
4. Water and Washrooms as a Human Right
Councillor Boyle submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
5. Taking Steps Towards a National Cost-shared Universal Healthy School Food
Program
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
6. Public Amenities in DCL-Waiver and Rental Rezoning Hot Zones

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 50
Councillor Fry submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
7. Supporting Gender Equality and Diversity in Vancouver City Council
Mayor Stewart submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter. The
motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
8. Rewilding Vancouver: 2030 Ecosystem Restoration Action Plan
Councillor Wiebe submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted matter.
The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a Council
Members’ Motion.
9. Providing Free Menstrual Products in City of Vancouver Civic Facilities
Washrooms
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a
Council Members’ Motion.
10. Beyond 2010: Consideration for the City of Vancouver to Participate in a Future
Olympic Winter Games Bid
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of Council Members’ motion on the above-noted
matter. The motion may be placed on the Council meeting agenda of March 10, 2020, as a
Council Members’ Motion.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council approve a leave of absence for Councillor De Genova for civic business
for tomorrow, February 26, from 3:00 pm to 3:30 pm; and
FURTHER THAT Council approve a leave of absence for Councillor De Genova for
personal reasons for Thursday, February 27, from 6 pm to 8:30 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05581)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova

Council Meeting
Minutes, February 25, 2020 51
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 5:03 pm.
* * * * *