REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 6, 2019
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was
held on Wednesday, November 6, 2019, at 9:35 am in the Council Chamber, Third Floor,
City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart* (Leave of Absence – after 4 pm)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh*
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry* (Leave of Absence – after 6 pm)
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung* (Leave of Absence – after 5 pm)
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 2
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee vary the order of the agenda to consider Item 2 – Approval of
Expropriation and Advance Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and 160 East
Hastings Street, as the first item of business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
Note: For clarity, the Minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council adopt Item 3 to 7, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
3. The Metson Rooms Grant Report
October 24, 2019
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(a) of the Vancouver Charter, Council approve
a money grant of up to $1,000,000 (the “Grant”) from the 2019 Housing Capital
Budget – Grants for “SRO Grants (Privately Owned SRO Stock),” to be dispersed
no later than January 31, 2020, to Community Builders Benevolence Group
(“CBG”), which is a charity registered with the Canada Revenue Agency, to
enable the continued operations of 100 interim affordable housing rooms, with
onsite services, at 1060 Howe Street, for a period of five (5) years.
B. THAT the Grant made to CBG be subject to CBG executing and delivering to the
City of Vancouver (the “City”) a grant agreement.
C. THAT the grant agreement executed by CBG be on the terms generally outlined
in the Report dated October 24, 2019, entitled “The Metson Rooms Grant
Report”, and otherwise satisfactory to the City’s General Manager of Arts, Culture
and Community Services and the City’s Director of Legal Services.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 3
D. THAT, on behalf of the City, the City’s General Manager of Arts, Culture and
Community Services be authorized to execute any grant agreement governing
the terms of the Grant;
E. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A above
unless and until an actual grant agreement is executed and delivered by the City
and CBG.
F. THAT City staff be directed to continue to work with CBG to pursue other funding
opportunities with the Provincial and Federal Governments to enhance
affordability, service-delivery, and on-going viability of CBG’s work.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 05156)
4. Annual Financial Authorities – 2020
October 20, 2019
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT, for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2020, Council authorize
the Director of Finance to draw warrants for payment (i.e. issue an authorization
to the City Treasurer to disburse funds from a City account), provided that any
such warrants for payment be reported in writing to the City Clerk for the
information of Council within 15 days after the end of the month in which each
warrant is drawn, in accordance with Sections 215 and 216 of the Vancouver
Charter.
B. THAT, for the period from January 1 to July 15, 2020, Council authorize the
Director of Finance to temporarily use such proceeds from the sale of debentures
that have not yet been expended to meet other expenditure requirements of the
City, pending collection of the 2020 general purpose tax levy, in accordance with
Section 259(1)(b) of the Vancouver Charter.
C. THAT, for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2020, Council authorize
the Director of Finance to invest City funds not immediately required and to vary
the investments from time to time where appropriate, in accordance with
Sections 201, 259, and 260 of the Vancouver Charter.
D. THAT, for the period from January 8, 2020, to January 7, 2021, pursuant to
Section 263 of the Vancouver Charter, Council authorize the Director of Finance
to establish a short-term borrowing facility to assist in managing the City’s cash
flow with the maximum outstanding amount not to exceed $60 million.
E. THAT, subject to approval of D above, Council instruct the Director of Legal
Services to bring forward a by-law for enactment by Council authorizing the
borrowing referred to in D above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05157)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 4
5. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Concrete Pipe
November 6, 2019
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering Services, the City’s Director of Legal Services,
and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and to enter into a contract with Ocean
Pipe, a Division of Lehigh Hanson Materials, Limited for the supply and delivery
of concrete pipe, for an initial term of three (3) years, with the City’s option to
extend for three (3) additional two (2) year terms, with an estimated contract
value of $4,808,007 plus applicable taxes over the initial three (3)-year term, to
be funded through the 2019 Engineering Capital Approved Budgets and future
Capital Budgets.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, the Chief Procurement Officer and the
General Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of
the City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in these motions.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05158)
6. Contract Award for Pre-Qualification of Professional Engineering Services
October 9, 2019
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering Services, the City’s Director of Legal Services,
and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and to enter into contracts with a list of
63 vendors as attached in Appendix A of the Report dated October 9, 2019,
entitled “Contract Award for Pre-Qualification of Professional Engineering
Services”, for providing the professional engineering services, for a term of three
(3) years, with an estimated contract value of $19.5M, plus applicable taxes, to
be funded through the Annual Capital Expenditure Budget, the Multi-Year Capital
Budgets and the Operating Budget subject to Council approval.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, the Chief Procurement Officer and the
General Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of
the City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in these motions.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05159)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 5
7. Contract Award for City-wide Construction Contract
October 10, 2019
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management, the City’s Director
of Legal Services and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer, and enter into a
contract with Scott Special Projects Ltd., as Construction Manager, for various
construction services for an initial term of three (3) years, with the option to
extend for two (2) additional one (1) year terms, with an estimated contract value
of $60,000,000, plus applicable taxes over the initial three (3)-year term, to be
funded through annual approved Capital Maintenance and Capital project
budgets where costs will be charged to specific programs and projects as work is
completed.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, the Chief Procurement Officer and the
General Manager of Real Estate and Facilities Management be authorized to
execute on behalf of the City the contract contemplated by A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in these motions.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05160)
At 9:42 am, Councillor De Genova declared conflict of interest on Item 2 due to personal
reasons. Councillor De Genova left the meeting before the start of Item 2 and did not return until
the conclusion of the item.
Prior to leaving the Chamber, Councillor De Genova relinquished the Chair to Councillor Fry.
2. Approval of Expropriation and Advance Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and
160 East Hastings Street
October 22, 2019
Sandra Singh, General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services, introduced the item
and staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services, and Real Estate and Facilities
Management, presented on the above-noted matter.
Following the presentation, the Committee heard from 23 speakers in support and three
speakers in opposition of the recommendations.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 12 pm and reconvened at 2:13 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 6
After hearing from speakers, staff from Arts, Culture and Community Services, and Real Estate
and Facilities Management, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council, as the approving authority under the Expropriation Act, R.S.B.C.
1996, c. 125 (the “Act”), approve the expropriation of the lands located at
159 East Hastings Street, as shown in Appendix A of the Report dated
October 22, 2019, entitled “Approval of Expropriation and Advance Payment for
159 East Hastings Street and 160 East Hastings Street”, legally described as:
Parcel Identifier Numbers 015-686-531, 015-685-926 & 015-685-951
The West 0.5 Feet Of Lot 13, Lot 14 & Lot 15, Block 9, District Lot 196, Plan 184
(the “Balmoral”)
by passing the resolution set out in Appendix B of the above-noted Report.
B. THAT, subject to the passing of the resolution set out in Appendix B of the
Report dated October 22, 2019, entitled “Approval of Expropriation and Advance
Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and 160 East Hastings Street”, Council
authorize the Director of Real Estate Services, on behalf of the City as the
expropriating authority, to pay One Dollar ($1.00) to the registered owner of the
Balmoral as the advance payment made under the Act.
C. THAT, subject to the passing of the resolution set out in Appendix B of the
Report dated October 22, 2019, entitled “Approval of Expropriation and Advance
Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and 160 East Hastings Street”, Council
approve funding of $350,000 to secure the Balmoral through additional building
hardware, security systems, on-site and mobile patrols.
D. THAT Council, as the approving authority under the Act, approve the
expropriation of the lands located at 160 East Hastings Street, as shown in
Appendix A of the Report dated October 22, 2019, entitled “Approval of
Expropriation and Advance Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and 160 East
Hastings Street”, legally described as:
Parcel Identifier Numbers 013-263-072 & 013-263-111
Lots 39 & 40, Block 12 District Lot 196 Plan 184 (the “Regent”, which together
with the Balmoral are herein defined as the “Hotel Properties”)
by passing the resolution set out in Appendix C of the above-noted Report.

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 7
E. THAT, subject to the passing of the resolution set out in Appendix C of the
Report dated October 22, 2019, entitled “Approval of Expropriation and Advance
Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and 160 East Hastings Street”, Council
authorize the Director of Real Estate Services, on behalf of the City as the
expropriating authority, to pay One Dollar ($1.00) to the registered owner of the
Regent and to pay One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) to the holder of an
unregistered lease interest with respect to the Regent Pub (the “Regent Pub
Lease”), as the advance payments made under the Act.
F. THAT, subject to the passing of the resolution set out in Appendix C of the
Report dated October 22, 2019, entitled “Approval of Expropriation and Advance
Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and 160 East Hastings Street”, Council
approve funding of $350,000 to secure the Regent through additional building
hardware, security systems, on-site and mobile patrols.
G. THAT the source of funds for the advance payments described in B and E above
and the securing of the Hotel Properties as described in C and F above, be the
2018 Capital Budget for Non-Market Rental (Social Housing & other).
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05152)
(Councillors Bligh absent for the vote)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to conflict of interest)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 3:42 pm and reconvened at 3:58 pm.
* * * * *
Prior to the start of Item 1, Councillor De Genova returned as Chair.
1. One-year Review of the Short-term Rental (STR) Program
October 8, 2019
Kathryn Holm, Chief Licence Inspector and Director of Licensing and Community Standards,
introduced the item and staff from Development, Buildings and Licensing, presented on the
above-noted matter.
Following the presentation, the Committee heard from four speakers in support and seven
speakers in opposition of the recommendations.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 4:56 pm to convene in Council.
The Committee reconvened at 6:06 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 8
After hearing from speakers, staff from Development, Buildings and Licensing, responded to
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle amendments to the Licence By-law No. 4450
to expand the responsibilities of a Short-term Rental (STR) business licence
holder, and regulate STR property managers;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to the Licence By-law No. 4450, generally in accordance
with the by-law attached as Appendix A to the Report dated October 8, 2019,
entitled “One-year Review of the Short-term Rental (STR) Program”, to be
effective January 1, 2020.
B. THAT Council approve an increase to the Short-term Rental Accommodation
Operator Business Licence fee for the year 2020 to $99/year, to better recover
the costs of licensing and enforcement;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services bring forward for enactment the
necessary amendments to Schedule A of the Licence By-law No. 4450, in
accordance with Appendix B of the Report dated October 8, 2019, entitled
“One-year Review of the Short-term Rental (STR) Program”, to be effective
January 1, 2020.
C. THAT Council request the Mayor to write a letter to the Province of British
Columbia to advocate for an equitable framework to share the Provincial Sales
Tax (PST) revenue generated from short-term rentals in Vancouver with the
City of Vancouver for the purpose of funding affordable housing;
FURTHER THAT the letter requests the Province of British Columbia to identify
approaches to hold all short-term rental platforms accountable for ensuring their
listings and operators comply with applicable local and provincial regulations.
D. THAT Council request the Mayor to write a letter on behalf of Council to the
Expedia Group, Booking Holdings and TripAdvisor Inc. requesting these
short-term rental platform companies to take additional measures to ensure their
listings and operators in Vancouver comply with the City of Vancouver’s
short-term rental regulations.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05153)
(Councillors Fry, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 7:30 pm and reconvened at 7:37 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 9
8. Exploring a More Robust Policy Framework Relating to the Sale and Promotion of Vaping
Products
At the Council meeting on November 5, 2019, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on November 6, 2019, in order to
hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. There has been a noticeable increase in the number of Vancouver retailers
selling vape equipment and supplies over the past few years amid calls to limit,
or even ban, vaping products and their promotion given serious concerns
regarding the health risks associated with vaping, particularly the advertising of
vaping products which often targets minors and youth;
2. The City of Vancouver does not currently impose any specific restrictions on the
sale of vape equipment and supplies, for example, there is no minimum distance
requirement between retailers of vaping equipment and supplies as is the case
for liquor stores and cannabis retailers, nor does the City have a license category
specific to retailers who sell vape products;
3. The BC Lung Association notes that although the long-term health effects of
using vaping products are currently unknown and under scientific examination,
the “[s]hort-term health effects include coughing, sneezing, exacerbation in
asthma symptoms and increased heart rate” are known;
4. On September 4, 2019, in the wake of reported cases of severe pulmonary
illness and a number of deaths associated with the use of vaping products in the
United States, Health Canada advised Canadians who use vaping products to
monitor themselves for symptoms of pulmonary illness (e.g., cough, shortness of
breath, chest pain) and to seek medical attention promptly if they have concerns
about their health;
5. On September 19, 2019, Dr. Bonnie Henry, B.C.’s provincial health officer,
issued a notice under the Reporting Information Affecting Public Health
Regulation that requires physicians to report incidences of patients exhibiting
symptoms that meet the national case definition for vaping-related illness;
6. On Wednesday, October 16, 2019, Dr. Bonnie Henry, B.C.’s provincial health
officer, confirmed the first probable case of a vaping-related illness in B.C., noting
“several other investigations [are] underway that may also meet the case
definition of probable or confirmed vaping-related illness in the near future;”

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 10
7. Dr. Bonnie Henry, B.C.’s provincial health officer, has also stated that vaping “is
quickly emerging as a significant public health issue, [and]… turning back the
clock on decades of effective anti-smoking efforts and creating a new generation
of young people addicted to nicotine;”
8. Vancouver Coastal Health has reported seeing “the classic signs of nicotine
addiction in young people who vape” (i.e., they can’t concentrate in school,
they’re irritable, and they don’t recognize they are experiencing nicotine
withdrawal) and further stated that there is “a limited window of opportunity to
reach young people who use e-cigarettes” given that studies show 99 percent of
people who become addicted to nicotine do so before the age of 26 while the
brain is still developing;
9. Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) is responsible for the enforcement of provincial
regulations governing sales of tobacco and vape products in Vancouver;
10. For its part, Vancouver Coastal Health has expressed grave concern that the
“young e-cigarette users of today don’t know the risks of vaping, and could
become the tobacco smokers of tomorrow,” while also noting that although the
long term health effects of vaping are not known, it is known that the chemicals in
some products are not safe when inhaled and that anyone near someone vaping
can also be affected by the vapour;
11. The BC Lung Association makes note of several studies that suggest the health
effects of vaping can be similar to those of cigarette smoking and also notes that
there have been cases of children and adults poisoned by swallowing the e-juice
or absorbing it through their skin;
12. Vancouver Coastal Health notes on its website that “[v]aping products, like vape
pens and e-cigarettes, may contain:
• Nicotine
• Volatile Organic Compounds (also found in gasoline)
• Carbonyls (also found in embalming liquid)
• Tiny particles (also found in wildfire smoke)
• Toxic heavy metals such as chromium, nickel and lead
• Flavours (e-juice)”
13. Vancouver Coastal Health advises that there are currently 479 retailers in
Vancouver that fall under the purview of VCH’s Tobacco Enforcement Program:
• 232 – sell tobacco and vape products
• 149 – sell tobacco exclusively
• 33 – sell vape products exclusively
• 65 – Liquor premises that sell tobacco and/or vape products

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 11
14. The federal Tobacco and Vaping Products Act distinguishes between “tobacco”
and “vape” products and specifically allows – at present – for advertising vape
products as long as the advertisements meet the criteria stipulated in the
legislation and regulations. This has resulted in TransLink being unable to
prohibit vape advertisements that meet the legal and regulatory requirements;
15. An increasing number of B.C. municipalities and school districts are calling for a
policy framework that is more robust than at present to address the many issues
related to vaping and vape products and they are taking steps – where they can
– to address these issues within their jurisdictional purview while also calling on
the provincial and federal governments to take actions appropriate to their
jurisdictional powers and responsibilities, for example:
• Richmond city councillors recently voted unanimously to ban
advertisements for vaping products on sites and property the City owns
and/or has sufficient control over, including transit shelters, transit
benches, and other street furniture, to bring attention to the serious health
risks associated with vaping, particularly for youth and minors who are
often the target audience of vape advertising.
• Trustees in the Fraser Cascade School District (SD78) recently voted
unanimously to send a letter to the Minister of Health asking the province
to ban flavoured vaping products, bring in tighter retail controls, develop
educational tools to stop students from vaping in the first place, and the
creation of tougher penalties for non-compliance.
• In April, Coquitlam City council asked their staff to find ways the city can
help to prevent children from obtaining vape products, while noting that
local governments have limited powers and jurisdiction to protect youth
from accessing vaping products or the appeal of vape products, including
an absence of resources for enforcement. More recently, Coquitlam City
council voted unanimously to support a motion asking the Federation of
Canadian Municipalities and UBCM to call upon Health Canada and the
provincial and territorial governments “to move quickly to coordinate
additional public policy and regulations to address access, sale and
appeal of vape products to youth, and offer additional enforcement
resources, to halt the growing usage of vape products among our youth
as a matter of concern to local government and their communities.”
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to explore various regulatory measures and actions
within the City’s jurisdictional powers, either through the Vancouver Charter or
other relevant legislation, as a step toward the establishment of a more robust
policy framework relating to the sale and promotion of vaping products in
Vancouver, and for staff to report back to Council before the end of Q1 in 2020
with recommendations and options for Council’s consideration including (but not
limited to):

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 12
• Measures to limit the proximity of vape retailers to schools, youth-oriented
facilities, and other recreation facilities, parks, and libraries etc.
frequented by youth
• Measures to ban advertisements for vaping products on sites and
properties the City owns and/or has sufficient control over, including
transit shelters, transit benches, and other street furniture etc.
• Changes to the City’s sponsorship policy as it pertains to tobacco
products to include vape products etc.
B. THAT Council empower and otherwise direct the Mayor, on behalf of City
Council, to write to the provincial Minister of Health in support of a ban on
flavoured vaping products, as well as calling on the province to bring in tighter
retail controls on vaping products, to set tougher penalties for non-compliance,
and to develop educational tools to stop students from vaping in the first place,
including any other measures that would serve to avert the serious health
impacts and public policy implications that vaping and vape products represent to
B.C. and B.C.’s communities.
C. THAT Council empower and otherwise direct the Mayor, on behalf of City
Council, to write to the Prime Minister of Canada and the federal Minister
responsible for the Tobacco and Vaping Products Act urging them to amend the
Act and all relevant regulations to restrict the advertisement of vape products as
is the case with limits to advertising tobacco products.
D. THAT Council direct staff to communicate with their staff counterparts at the
Vancouver School Board, the Vancouver Park Board, and Vancouver Coastal
Health to offer support for any initiatives they may undertake or be undertaking in
relation to vaping and vape products;
FURTHER THAT staff report back to Council on any initiatives that the
Vancouver School Board, the Vancouver Park Board, and/or Vancouver Coastal
Health may be contemplating in relation to vaping and vape products with an eye
to potential partnerships.
E. THAT Council direct staff to reach out to their staff counterparts in other B.C.
communities where there is concern about the impacts of vaping and vaping
products in order to signal and offer the City of Vancouver’s support for a
coordinated Federation of Canadian Municipalities effort and a coordinated
UBCM effort to call on Health Canada and the provincial and territorial
governments to move quickly on additional public policy and related regulations
to address the sale, access, and appeal of vape products to youth, and for the
federal, provincial, and territorial governments to consider providing additional
enforcement resources to local governments to halt the growing use of vape
products among youth as per the grave health concerns this issue has for local
governments and their respective communities.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No.05154)
(Councillors Fry, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 13
9. Increasing Access for Emergency Services: Examining How the City of Vancouver
Can Increase Access to Strata and Rental Multi-Residential Buildings for All
Emergency Services
At the Council meeting on November 5, 2019, Council referred the following motion to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on November 6, 2019, in order to
hear from speakers.
At 8:10 pm, Councillor De Genova relinquished the Chair to Deputy Mayor Hardwick as
Vice-Chair Fry was not present, in order to engage in debate on the following motion. Councillor
De Genova did not resume the Chair for the remainder of the meeting.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. In June 2014, the Vancouver Police Department announced the launch of Project
Access “to assist Vancouverites in getting the police resources they need in the
event of an emergency.” The project included a voluntary partnership between
building management and the VPD to secure a method of entry to allow police
access to residential condominium and rental buildings in the event of an
emergency;
2. Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services are able to access multi-residential
buildings via a lockbox that allows fire-fighters and rescue workers to enter
buildings without causing extra damage during an emergency;
3. Richmond RCMP can gain access to multi-family residential buildings that opt
into the City of Richmond Voluntary Building Access Program, using an
electronic signal for building access. A media release from RCMP dated March
23, 2017, confirms the planned solution includes “a Bluetooth-enabled lockbox
that uses a smartphone to open the box where keys or key fobs can be stored.
And should the smartphone get lost, in addition to requiring a passcode to open
the app, the app itself can be removed from the device remotely, adding
increased security. Further, every time the box is opened with the smartphone, a
transaction gets sent to a database that's managed by the fire department. While
typical lockboxes are surface-mounted to the wall, this one is flush-mounted,
making it virtually impenetrable;”
4. Currently, police officers and paramedics do not have the same level of access
as Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services;
5. There have been emergency situations in the City of Vancouver where
paramedics and police have required access to buildings;
6. British Columbia Ambulance Service (BCAS) and the Vancouver Police
Department both respond to a variety of situations, examples include: emergency

Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 14
mental health issues, suicide attempts, domestic violence, serious medical
emergencies requiring medical attention and transport to hospital. Response time
and the ability of emergency services to access multi-residential buildings can
greatly affect and be a determining factor in the outcome of emergency calls.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to explore options available to the City of Vancouver to
increase access and/or require new multi-family residential buildings to grant
access to all Emergency Services in emergency circumstances.
B. THAT Council direct staff to consider ways to encourage existing strata and
rental buildings to opt into programs allowing access to all emergency services in
Vancouver.
C. THAT staff report back to Council with possible recommendations as soon as
possible, and no later than Q4 2021.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05155)
(Councillors Fry, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
The Committee adjourned at 8:39 pm.
* * * * *

COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
NOVEMBER 6, 2019
A Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, November 6, 2019,
at 4:57 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry* (Leave of Absence – after 6 pm)
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung* (Leave of Absence – after 5 pm)
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Mayor Stewart (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Director, Legislative Operations
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
*Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, November 6, 2019
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
2. Approval of Expropriation and Advance Payment for 159 East Hastings Street and
160 East Hastings Street
3. The Metson Rooms Grant Report
4. Annual Financial Authorities - 2020
5. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Concrete Pipe
6. Contract Award for Pre-Qualification of Professional Engineering Services
7. Contract Award for City-wide Construction Contract

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 2
Items 2 to 7
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of November 6, 2019, as contained in items 2 to 7,
be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. Safe and Inclusive Streets: Support for Community Crisis Management Through
Understanding and De-escalation
At the Council meeting on November 5, 2019, Council referred the above-noted motion to the
Council meeting, immediately following the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
on November 6, 2019, as Unfinished Business.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council refer Unfinished Business 1 – Safe and Inclusive Streets: Support for
Community Crisis Management Through Understanding and De-escalation, to the next
Council meeting on November 26, 2019, as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Council meeting recess.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council recessed at 5:00 pm and reconvened at 8:40 pm.
* * * * *

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 3
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, November 6, 2019
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
1. One-year Review of the Short-term Rental (STR) Program
8. Exploring a More Robust Policy Framework Relating to the Sale and Promotion of
Vaping Products
9. Increasing Access for Emergency Services: How the City of Vancouver Can Increase
Access to Strata and Rental Multi-Residential Buildings for All Emergency Services
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of November 6, 2019, as contained in items 1, 8
and 9, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Fry and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council enact the by-law listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1 and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to authorize the borrowing of certain sums of money from January 8, 2020, to
January 7, 2021, pending the collection of real property taxes (By-law No. 12579)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Fry and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)

Council
Minutes, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 4
The Council adjourned at 8:40 pm.
* * * * *