REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OCTOBER 23 AND 24, 2019
A Regular Meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was
held on Wednesday, October 23, 2019, at 2:08 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City
Hall. Subsequently, the meeting reconvened on Thursday, October 24, 2019, at 6:14 pm.
PRESENT: Councillor Adriane Carr, Chair
Mayor Kennedy Stewart*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle* (Leave of Absence – Medical
Leave after 8:16 pm)
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick*
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Vice-Chair*
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Rosemary Hagiwara, Deputy City Clerk
Tamarra Wong, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
* * * * *
Prior to considering the agenda items, the Chair reminded the Committee of the meeting
procedures pilot project approved earlier this year and subsequently extended into the fall.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 2
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT, under Section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law, the Committee suspend rules
13.8 and 13.9 of the Procedure By-law. Suspending rule 13.8 will permit members of the
public up to three minutes to address the Committee, and suspending rule 13.9 will
permit Committee members up to three minutes to ask questions of speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
* * * * *
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council adopt Item 1, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
1. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Liquid Asphalts for Paving
October 3, 2019
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate to the satisfaction of the City’s
General Manager of Engineering Services, the City’s Director of Legal Services,
and the City’s Chief Procurement Officer and enter into a contract with McAsphalt
Industries Ltd. for the supply and delivery of liquid asphalts for paving, for an
initial term of three (3) years, with the City’s option to extend for two (2) additional
one (1) year terms, with an estimated contract value of $6.3 million plus
applicable taxes over the initial 3-year term. Funding is available from the 2019
Engineering Operating and Capital Approved Budgets. The 2020 and beyond
expenditures for this contract are subject to the Council approval of the 2020
Multi-Year Capital Budget and the Annual Operating Budget.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer and General
Manager of Engineering Services be authorized to execute on behalf of the City
the contract contemplated by above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s adoption of A and
B above unless and until such contract is executed by the authorized signatories
of the City as set out in A to C.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 05067)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 3
2. Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756
July 5, 2019
At the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on July 24, 2019, Council
heard from speakers and referred the above report to a Fall 2019 Council or Committee
meeting, to continue with debate and decision.
At 2:13 pm, Councillor Carr stated that she would need to relinquish the Chair to Vice-Chair,
Councillor Kirby-Yung, in order to participate in debate. Councillor Kirby-Yung rose on a Point of
Order to inform the Chair that she would also be participating in debate.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Councillor Fry assume the Chair.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
At this point in the proceedings, Councillor Fry assumed the Chair.
The City Clerk along with the City Manager and Legal Services staff, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve in principle the proposed amendments to the Procedure
By-law No. 9756, as set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756,” with the
following amendments:
i. Section 2.8 - insert “Meetings to be extended past 10:00 pm that would
involve debate or decision require a unanimous vote of Council members
present” to the end;
ii. Section 7.5(a) - strike the word “three” and substitute with “five”;
iii. Section 7.5(b) - strike the word “five” and substitute with “seven”;
iv. Section 9.1(a) - strike the word “two” and substitute with “one” and strike
the letter ‘s’ after the word “meeting”;
v. Section 9.6 - strike the word “two” and substitute with “five”; and
vi. Section 9.7 - insert the word “clarifying” before the word “questions” and
insert the phrase “allowing time for” before the word “responses”.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare a by-law for
enactment generally in accordance with the by-law attached as Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments to the Procedure
By-law No. 9756.”

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 4
C. THAT Council meeting agendas and materials be released to the public no later
than five business days prior to scheduled meetings;
FURTHER THAT staff identify options for early release of high profile and lengthy
reports.
amended
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 3:07 pm and reconvened at 3:25 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments
to the Procedure By-law No. 9756,” be amended as follows:
THAT Section 1.2 be amended as follows:
• “improper conduct” (c) - strike the word “reasonable”;
• “point of information” – insert the phrase “or to the City Manager”
between the words “member” and “for”;
FURTHER THAT Section 2.8 be amended to strike the phrase “Meetings to be
extended past 10:00 pm that would involve debate or decision require a
unanimous vote of Council members present” and substitute with “unless Council
resolves to extend the meeting by a 2/3 vote of members present, or, if extending
a meeting past 10:00 pm for the purpose of debate and decision, by a unanimous
vote of members present”;
FURTHER THAT Section 3.3(a) be amended to insert the phrase “, including full
reports,” between the words “meeting” and “to” and to strike the phrase “day
preceding” and substitute with the phrase “6th day prior to”;
FURTHER THAT Section 3.3(b) be amended to insert the phrase “, including full
reports,” between the words “meeting” and “on” and to insert the phrase “no later
than the 5th day prior to the meeting” at the end;
FURTHER THAT Section 3.3 be amended to insert “(c) send a copy of revisions
to the agenda, including revised reports, to each Council member by electronic
mail and post a revised agenda, including revised reports, on the City’s website
no later than the day preceding the meeting”;
FURTHER THAT Section 3.14(c) be amended to insert the phrase “, and, if
removed, thereafter made available to the public through the City of Vancouver
Archives” at the end;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 5
FURTHER THAT Section 6.1 be amended as follows:
• Subsection (a) - insert the phrase “, or to request a statement of
the rule that applies to a point of order”;
• Insert a new Subsection (b) to read “not, by words, tone, matter of
speaking, or gesticulation, express any opinion or make any
allegation that, directly or indirectly, reflects negatively upon the
character of any person or group of persons;”
• Insert a new Subsection (c) to read “not question the motives of a
Council member”;
FURTHER THAT Section 8.9 be amended to strike “8.9” and substitute with “8.8”;
FURTHER THAT Section 8.10 be amended to insert the phrase “or post it on-
screen or provide a printed copy” between the words “debate” and “but,”;
FURTHER THAT Section 9.3(d) be amended to strike the word “two” and
substitute with the phrase “of the next” and remove the letter ‘s’ at the end of the
word “meeting”; and
FURTHER THAT Section 13.3 be amended to keep the word “generally.”
carried
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments
to the Procedure By-law No. 9756,” be amended as follows:
THAT Section 3.3(a) be amended to insert the word “business” between “6th” and
“day”;
FURTHER THAT Section 3.3(b) be amended to insert the word “business”
between “5th” and “day”.
LOST (Vote No. 05018)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillor Bligh abstained from the vote)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
The amendment to the amendment having lost, the amendment was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05019) with Councillor Bligh abstaining from the vote.
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 6
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Appendix A of the above-noted Administrative Report be amended as follows:
THAT Section 5.1 be amended to strike the phrase “infants under two years of
age” and substitute with the word “children”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05020)
(Councillor Hardwick absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the following be added as D:
D. THAT Council adopt the member’s motion submission and review process as a
standard procedure, as detailed in the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019,
entitled “Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756”;
FURTHER THAT Appendix A of the above noted Administrative Report be
amended as follows:
THAT Section 7.5 be amended as follows:
• Subsection (a) – strike the word “five” and substitute with the word
“three”;
• Subsection (b) – strike the word “seven” and substitute with the
word “five”;
FURTHER THAT Section 9.6 be amended to strike the word “five” and
substitute with the word “two”.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT D be amended to add the following phrase at the end “FURTHER THAT, such
process shall be for the specific purpose of providing fact verification, current information
pertinent to City work on a given topic, and identification of any legal considerations.
Such process shall not be utilized to provide staff opinion on member motions.” at the
end.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05021)
(Councillors Boyle, Swanson and Mayor Stewart opposed)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 7
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT D be amended to strike the word “specific” and to insert the phrase “policy
context, amount of staff time required, potential costs” between the words “topic,” and
“and”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05022)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the proposed amendment to D be struck and the following inserted:
D. THAT the member motion submission and review process be optional.
LOST (Vote No. 05024)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Dominato, Fry, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart opposed)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
* * * * *
During the proceedings, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be extended to complete Item 2.
CARRIED AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
* * * * *
The amendment to the amendment having lost, the amendment as amended was put. The
Committee agreed to separate the components of the amendment for the vote.
THAT the following be added as D:
D. THAT Council adopt the member’s motion submission and review process as a
standard procedure, as detailed in the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019,
entitled “Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756”;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 8
FURTHER THAT such process shall be for the purpose of providing fact
verification, current information pertinent to City work on a given topic, policy
context, amount of staff time required, potential costs and identification of any
legal considerations. Such process shall not be utilized to provide staff opinion on
member motions.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05025)
(Councillor Bligh opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
THAT Section 7.5 be amended as follows:
• Subsection (a) – Strike the word “five” and substitute with the word
“three”;
• Subsection (b) – Strike the word “seven” and substitute with the
word “five”;
CARRIED (Vote No. 05026)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
FURTHER THAT Section 9.6 be amended to strike the word “five” and substitute
with the word “two”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05027)
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
At 5:33 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee recess and reconvene at 6:00 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:33 pm and reconvened at 6:10 pm.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Mayor Stewart
THAT Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments
to the Procedure By-law No. 9756,” be amended as follows:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 9
THAT Section 9.2 be amended to insert the phrase “The exact text of” at the
beginning;
FURTHER THAT a new Section 9.3 be inserted to read as “Council members
must move their motion, submitted in accordance with Section 9.2, using the
same language as listed on the agenda.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05028)
The Committee agreed to separate the components of the motion, as amended, for the final
vote.
The Committee voted on Sections in A as follows:
Section 7.5(a)
if the speaker is speaking on their own behalf or on behalf of a corporation,
society or other organization as an individual, the speaker must not speak at a
standing committee or special Council meeting for more than three minutes in
total nor more than once; or
Section 7.5(b)
if the speaker is a representative speaker, must not speak at a standing
committee or special Council meeting for more than five minutes in total nor more
than once; and
Section 7.5(c)
only one speaker or representative speaker from each organization is permitted.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05031)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
Subsequently, the vote was reconsidered as requested by Councillor De Genova.
* * * * *
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Committee reconsider the previous vote in order to further sever the vote for
Section 7.5.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 10
Section 7.5(a)
if the speaker is speaking on their own behalf or on behalf of a corporation,
society or other organization as an individual, the speaker must not speak at a
standing committee or special Council meeting for more than three minutes in
total nor more than once; or
LOST (Vote No. 05034)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
Section 7.5(b)
if the speaker is a representative speaker, must not speak at a standing
committee or special Council meeting for more than five minutes in total nor more
than once; and
CARRIED (Vote No. 05035)
(Councillors Bligh, Dominato, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
Section 7.5(c)
only one speaker or representative speaker from each organization is permitted.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05036)
(Councillors Dominato and Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
Section 9.6
A Council member who brings forward a member’s motion, in accordance with
part 9, must move the motion in two minutes or less and must not recite the
preamble.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05037)
(Councillors Hardwick and Kirby-Yung opposed)
D. THAT Council adopt the member’s motion submission and review process as a
standard procedure, as detailed in the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019,
entitled “Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756”;
FURTHER THAT such process shall be for the purpose of providing fact
verification, current information pertinent to City work on a given topic, policy
context, amount of staff time required, potential costs and identification of any

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 11
legal considerations. Such process shall not be utilized to provide staff opinion on
member motions.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05038)
(Councillor Bligh opposed)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
Following the vote on D, the Committee continued to vote on the remainder of A, B and C.
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the proposed amendments to the Procedure
By-law No. 9756, as set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756,” with the
following amendments:
Section 1.2
“improper conduct” means to:
(c) refuse to follow the directions of the Chair;
“point of information” means a request to the Chair or through the Chair to
another Council member or to the City Manager for information relevant to the
business at hand but not related to parliamentary procedure;
Section 2.8
Each meeting must recess or adjourn:
(a) at noon;
(b) at 5:00 pm; or
(c) at 10:00 p.m.
unless Council resolves to extend the meeting by a 2/3 vote of members present,
or, if extending a meeting past 10:00 pm for the purpose of debate and decision,
by a unanimous vote of members present.
Section 3.3
(a) send a copy of the agenda for each meeting, including full reports, to
each Council member by electronic mail no later than noon on the 6th day
prior to the meeting;
(b) post a copy of the agenda for each meeting, including full reports, on the
City’s website no later than the 5th day prior to the meeting; and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 12
(c) send a copy of revisions to the agenda, including revised reports, to each
Council member by electronic mail and post a revised agenda, including
revised reports, on the City’s website no later than the day preceding the
meeting.
Section 3.14(c)
may be removed from the City’s website four years after the date the recording
was posted, and, if removed, thereafter made available to the public through the
City of Vancouver Archives.
Section 5.1
Only Council members, and those persons permitted by the Chair or City Clerk to
do so, may enter the Council floor during a meeting, except that children may
enter the Council floor during a meeting when being cared for by a Council
member.
Section 6.1
(a) disturb or interrupt another Council member who is speaking, except to
raise a point of order or point of privilege, or to request a statement of the
rule that applies to a point of order;
(b) , by words, tone, matter of speaking, or gesticulation, express any opinion
or make any allegation that, directly or indirectly, reflects negatively upon
the character of any person or group of persons;
(c) question the motives of a Council member;
Section 8.9
Despite section 8.8, a Council member who has moved a main motion may reply
for not more than five minutes but a Council member who has moved an
amendment to a main motion may not reply.
Section 8.10
A Council member may require the City Clerk to read a motion under debate or
post it on-screen or provide a printed copy but, in doing so, must not interrupt
another Council member who is speaking to the motion.
Section 9.1(a)
the Council member must first deliver a notice of Council member’s motion in
written or electronic form, by title, to the City Clerk at the meeting, which must be
at least one Council meeting prior to which the Council member intends to move
the motion;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 13
Section 9.2
The exact text of a Council member’s motion received by the City Clerk on or
before 5 p.m. on Monday or, if that Monday is a statutory holiday, on or before
9:00 a.m. on Tuesday of the week preceding the week of the Council meeting at
which the Council member intends to move the motion, will be added to the
agenda for the next Council meeting in the order in which it was received, except
that the City Clerk must not add the motion to the agenda if:
Please note: With the addition of a new Section 9.3, the Sections in Part 9 have been
renumbered.
Section 9.3
Council members must move their motion, submitted in accordance with section
9.2, using the same language as is listed on the agenda.
Section 9.4(d)
the City Clerk must add the motion to the agenda of the next Council meeting
following the date at which the member’s motion is raised as new business.
Section 9.8
After a Council member has introduced a Council members’ motion, per section
9.7, but before the motion is on the floor of Council, each Council member may
ask clarifying questions of the Council member moving the motion for one minute
or less, including allowing time for responses.
Section 13.3
A request by a member of the public to speak to a referral report is generally not
in order, except that if a referral report recommends that a matter not be referred
to public hearing, the applicant may speak to that recommendation.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare a by-law for
enactment generally in accordance with the by-law attached as Appendix A of
the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments to the
Procedure By-law No. 9756.”
C. THAT staff identify options for early release of high profile and lengthy reports.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05039)
(Councillor De Genova abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 14
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the proposed amendments to the Procedure
By-law No. 9756, as set out in Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated
July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756,” with the
following amendments:
i. Section 1.2
“improper conduct” means to:
(c) refuse to follow the directions of the Chair;
“point of information” means a request to the Chair or through the Chair to
another Council member or to the City Manager for information relevant
to the business at hand but not related to parliamentary procedure;
ii. Section 2.8
Each meeting must recess or adjourn:
(a) at noon;
(b) at 5:00 pm; or
(c) at 10:00 p.m.
unless Council resolves to extend the meeting by a 2/3 vote of members
present, or, if extending a meeting past 10:00 pm for the purpose of
debate and decision, by a unanimous vote of members present.
iii. Section 3.3 The City Clerk must:
(a) send a copy of the agenda for each meeting, including full reports,
to each Council member by electronic mail no later than noon on
the 6th day prior to the meeting;
(b) post a copy of the agenda for each meeting, including full
reports, on the City’s website no later than the 5th day prior to the
meeting; and
(c) send a copy of revisions to the agenda, including revised reports,
to each Council member by electronic mail and post a revised
agenda, including revised reports, on the City’s website no later
than the day preceding the meeting.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 15
iv. Section 3.14(c)
may be removed from the City’s website four years after the date the
recording was posted, and, if removed, thereafter made available to the
public through the City of Vancouver Archives.
v. Section 5.1
Only Council members, and those persons permitted by the Chair or City
Clerk to do so, may enter the Council floor during a meeting, except that
children may enter the Council floor during a meeting when being cared
for by a Council member.
vi. Section 6.1
A Council member must not:
(a) disturb or interrupt another Council member who is speaking,
except to raise a point of order or point of privilege, or to request a
statement of the rule that applies to a point of order;
(b) , by words, tone, matter of speaking, or gesticulation, express any
opinion or make any allegation that, directly or indirectly, reflects
negatively upon the character of any person or group of persons;
(c) question the motives of a Council member;
(d) speak disrespectfully to another Council member, an official of the
City or member of the public;
(e) carry on a private conversation when a Council member has the
floor;
(f) disrupt or delay the conduct of business at a meeting; or
(g) disobey the Chair when called to order.
vii. Section 7.5
A speaker must limit their comments to the matter contained in the report
or recommendations being discussed, and:
(a) if the speaker is speaking on their own behalf or on behalf of a
corporation, society or other organization as an individual, the
speaker must not speak at a standing committee or special
Council meeting for more than five minutes in total nor more than
once; or

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 16
(b) if the speaker is a representative speaker, must not speak at a
standing committee or special Council meeting for more than five
minutes in total nor more than once; and
(c) only one speaker or representative speaker from each
organization is permitted.
viii. Section 8.9
Despite section 8.8, a Council member who has moved a main motion
may reply for not more than five minutes but a Council member who has
moved an amendment to a main motion may not reply.
ix. Section 8.10
A Council member may require the City Clerk to read a motion under
debate or post it on-screen or provide a printed copy but, in doing so,
must not interrupt another Council member who is speaking to the
motion.
x. Section 9.1(a)
the Council member must first deliver a notice of Council member’s
motion in written or electronic form, by title, to the City Clerk at the
meeting, which must be at least one Council meeting prior to which the
Council member intends to move the motion;
xi. Section 9.2
The exact text of a Council member’s motion received by the City Clerk
on or before 5 p.m. on Monday or, if that Monday is a statutory holiday, on
or before 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday of the week preceding the week of the
Council meeting at which the Council member intends to move the
motion, will be added to the agenda for the next Council meeting in the
order in which it was received, except that the City Clerk must not add the
motion to the agenda if:
xii. Section 9.3
Council members must move their motion, submitted in accordance with
section 9.2, using the same language as is listed on the agenda.
xiii. Section 9.4(d)
the City Clerk must add the motion to the agenda of the next Council
meeting following the date at which the member’s motion is raised as new
business.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 17
xiv. Section 9.5
A Council member may move a motion at a Council meeting that follows a
standing committee meeting, or at a Council meeting, as urgent business.
xv. Section 9.6
If the Chair rules that a motion referred to in Section 9.5 is:
(a) urgent business, Council must deal with the motion at the same
meeting; or
(b) not urgent business, section 9.4 applies.
xvi. Section 9.7
A Council member who brings forward a member’s motion, in accordance
with part 9, must move the motion in two minutes or less and must not
recite the preamble.
xvii. Section 9.8
After a Council member has introduced a Council members’ motion, per
section 9.7, but before the motion is on the floor of Council, each Council
member may ask clarifying questions of the Council member moving the
motion for one minute or less, including allowing time for responses.
xviii. Section 13.3
A request by a member of the public to speak to a referral report is
generally not in order, except that if a referral report recommends that a
matter not be referred to public hearing, the applicant may speak to that
recommendation.
B. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare a by-law for
enactment generally in accordance with the by-law attached as Appendix A of
the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019, entitled “Amendments to the
Procedure By-law No. 9756.”
C. THAT staff identify options for early release of high profile and lengthy reports.
D. THAT Council adopt the member’s motion submission and review process as a
standard procedure, as detailed in the Administrative Report dated July 5, 2019,
entitled “Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756”;
FURTHER THAT, such process shall be for the purpose of providing fact
verification, current information pertinent to City work on a given topic, policy
context, amount of staff time required, potential costs and identification of any
legal considerations. Such process shall not be utilized to provide staff opinion on
member motions.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 18
Following the completion of Item 2, Councillor Carr resumed as Chair.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 6:40 pm and reconvened at 6:44 pm.
* * * * *
3. Establishing an Independent Auditor General Office for the City of Vancouver
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT under section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law, Council suspend rule 10.6 of the
Procedure By-law to allow members two minutes to introduce motions and one minute to
ask questions of the mover.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
At the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on October 2, 2019, Council
referred the above motion to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting
on October 23, 2019, in order to hear from previously registered speakers.
The Committee heard from one speaker in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Good governance in the municipal sector, and ensuring that a municipal
government achieves its intended results while always acting in the public
interest, is essential to satisfying the public’s expectation that a municipality is
providing effective stewardship over public assets, value-for-money in
operations, transparent administration, and accountability for results;
2. Ensuring that the City of Vancouver is financially healthy and administratively
effective, including a commitment to service excellence, are chief among the
governance goals of the City – as articulated prominently in the City’s 2019
Corporate Plan;
3. The City of Vancouver’s organizational structure serves to support the
community through various departments, services, and groups, including
departments, services, and groups responsible for Finance, Risk, and Business
Planning functions;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 19
4. Each year, the City of Vancouver prepares a combined annual budget and five-
year financial plan, made up of operating and capital budgets and department
service plans, with approximately three quarters of the annual funds required to
run the City coming directly from property taxes and utility fees;
5. Section 230 (1) of the Vancouver Charter requires that Council shall, “not later
than the first Council meeting in each year, appoint a firm of chartered
professional accountants to audit the accounts and transactions of the city and of
every other administrative body.” i
6. There are three types of municipal audit functions: Auditors General, external
City Auditors, and Internal Auditors, each of which plays a different but
interdependent role, and all of which can add significant value to a municipality
despite the fact that the differences between them are not always well
understood by members of a City Council or Audit Committee;
7. The City of Vancouver is the only major Canadian city that does not have an
Auditor General’s office (or a comparable “City Auditor” office) that is
independent of the City’s management – one that is capable of providing an
essential layer of independent financial and performance oversight of the City’s
financial and operational affairs;
8. The City of Vancouver currently has an internal audit process and internal audit
division that “reports to the internal audit management team consisting of the city
manager, deputy city manager, director of finance, and director of legal services,”
9. The City’s Internal Audit (IA) Division consists of “a team of five certified internal
audit professionals” dedicated to completing a variety of audits focused on
“effectiveness, efficiency, and economy” to provide “an independent and
objective assurance function which helps promote the City's efficiency,
effectiveness, and accountability.”; ii
10. In contrast to the City of Vancouver’s existing internal audit processes, Auditors
General at the municipal level report directly to a City Council, or a Committee of
Council, and have a mandate to set their own audit plan, publicly report the
results of audits, serve independently from City management, and greatly assist
Councils in holding themselves and City administrators accountable for the
stewardship of public funds and the achievement of value-for-money within
municipal operations;
11. The establishment of an Auditor General Office in the City of Vancouver,
consistent with Auditor General offices in other major Canadian cities, and
operating independent of the City’s internal audit processes, would offer an
enhanced standard of audit independence and objectivity and help to ensure that
the City is providing effective stewardship over public assets, value-for-money in
operations, transparent administration, and accountability for results, consistent
with the public’s reasonable expectations; iii
12. In July 2011, prior to the Province of British Columbia establishing the Auditor
General for Local Government (AGLG) office (NOTE: BC’s AGLG currently has

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 20
an annual budget of $2.6 million and serves 190 local governments ranging in
size from 250 to over 500,000 people), the Union of British Columbia
Municipalities (UBCM) issued a Context Paper entitled, “Municipal Auditor
General Context Paper: Background and context to the proposed Office of the
Municipal Auditor General under consideration by the Province of British
Columbia,” with the intention to: iv
• Inform discussions of local government Councils and Boards as they
considered responses to a survey on the proposed BC Municipal Auditor
General from the Minister of Community, Sport and Cultural
Development.
• Present UBCM’s initial research relating to a) Auditors General and
Municipal Auditors General across Canada, b) the local government
financial accountability framework in British Columbia, and c)
considerations relating to further policy development work.
• Assist UBCM members as they prepared for a broader public discussion
of the initiative within their communities;
13. UBCM’s 2011 Context Paper variously notes the existence of Municipal Auditors
General in Nova Scotia, Quebec (for municipalities over 100,000 population), in
Ontario (with a specific requirement for the City of Toronto), and Manitoba, as
well as “generalized statutory powers in Alberta and BC” that allow a local
government to establish a Municipal Auditor General and “assign duties to the
Office.”; v
14. Examples of Canadian municipalities that have Municipal Auditors General
independent of a city’s management and administrators (or alternatively a “City
Auditor” with much the same function, mandate, and reporting structure as an
Auditor General) include the following: vi
• Sudbury, Ontario: “The Auditor General reports directly to Greater
Sudbury Council and is responsible for assisting Council in holding itself
and its administrators accountable for the quality of stewardship over
public funds and for achievement of value for money in municipal
operations. By performing duties in an independent manner, and making
reports available to the public, the Auditor General’s Office plays an
important role in promoting transparency, accountability and trust in
municipal operations.”;
• Edmonton, Alberta: “The City Auditor is appointed by City Council to
provide internal audit services. The delegated powers, duties, and
functions of this position are established under the City Auditor Bylaw. In
providing services to the corporation, the Office of the City Auditor
performs the key roles of guardian and agent of change.” (City of
Edmonton City Auditor By-law 12424);
• Montréal, Québec: (Bureau du vérificateur general) “The Auditor General
assists City Council in the execution of its governance duties by keeping

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 21
it updated on the diligent and optimal use of public funds by Municipal
Administration. By means of fully independent audits and the publication
of reports which are available to the public, the Auditor General plays a
critical role in promoting the transparency and accountability of municipal
operations.”;
NOTE: Report of The Auditor General of The Ville De Montréal for
o
the year ended December 31, 2018 – Our mission is to “provide
city council and citizens with an objective and independent view of
the quality of public funds management, including the economic,
efficient and effective use of resources, legal and regulatory
compliance, and the reliability of financial statements.”
• Halifax, Nova Scotia: “The Auditor General is responsible for assisting
Council in holding itself and the Municipality’s administrators accountable
for the quality of stewardship over the public funds and for achievement
of value for money in the Municipality’s operations.”;
• Winnipeg, Manitoba: “The City Auditor is a statutory officer appointed by
City Council under The City of Winnipeg Charter and is independent of
the Public Service. Powers and authorities granted through the City of
Winnipeg Charter, By-laws and Council motions support the position and
mandate of the City Auditor…. The City Auditor conducts examinations
of the operations of the City and its affiliated bodies to assist Council in
its governance role of ensuring the accountability of the Public Service
for the quality of stewardship over public funds and for the achievement
of value for money in City operations. The City Auditor is directly
accountable to City Council through the Audit Committee which is
comprised of Executive Policy Committee members.”;
NOTE: Mission – “To support City Council and the Public Service
o
by providing objective and independent advice and assurance with
respect to governance, risk management, performance and
accountability.”;
• Calgary, Alberta: “The City Auditor’s Office is responsible for assisting
Council in its oversight of the City Manager’s Administration,
accountability for stewardship over public funds, and accountability for
the achievement of value for money in City operations. The City Auditor
is a designated officer appointed by Council and is independent of The
City’s Administration. The City Auditor reports to Council through the
Audit Committee. The City Auditor’s duties, responsibilities and authority
are established by Bylaw 30M2004.”;
• Toronto, Ontario: “The Auditor General is responsible for assisting City
Council in holding itself and City administrators accountable for the
quality of stewardship over public funds and for achievement of value for
money in City operations. The Auditor General’s Office is independent of
management and has the authority to conduct financial, operational,
compliance, information systems, forensic and other special reviews” of

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 22
most City departments, City agencies and corporations, local boards
provided for under the City of Toronto Act, and other entities the City is
related to or has an interest in;
15. UBCM’s 2011 Context Paper states that “While there is no specific authority for a
BC local government to appoint a MAG [Municipal Auditor General], the audit
provisions relating to both municipalities and regional districts allow Councils and
Boards to require reports (in addition to the required financial statement reports)
from their auditors. This would allow Councils/Boards to require such things as
performance audits. In addition, the natural persons powers’ of municipalities and
broad corporate powers of regional districts should be sufficient for
Councils/Boards to establish an Office of the MAG and assign duties to that
Office, if they so choose.”; vii
16. Section 162 of the Vancouver Charter states that “The Council (a) may establish
and equip such departments and offices as it may from time to time deem
expedient in the exercise of its powers, and may assign such functions and
duties to the persons employed in such departments and offices as the Council
may from time to time decide.”; viii
17. Growth in the size, scope, and nature of the City of Vancouver’s operating and
capital budgets, which have a combined total that now approaches $2 billion
annually, along with many competing budget priorities, necessitates that
Vancouver City Council explore and seriously consider governance best
practices observed in other major Canadian cities, such as an Independent
Auditor General, that can serve to strengthen the City of Vancouver’s audit
functions and inspire public confidence that the City of Vancouver and Vancouver
City Council are providing the best possible stewardship over public funds while
actively and continuously seeking to better identify and mitigate risks the City
faces, improve accountability, strengthen management controls, and enhance
the efficiency and effectiveness of City operations;
18. The City of Vancouver (see: Internal audit reports: https://vancouver.ca/your-
government/internal-audit-reports.aspx) subscribes to the notion that “An
independent audit function is essential to government accountability.” ix
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council establish an Independent Auditor General Office
for the City of Vancouver, one that would report directly to Council independent
of the City’s management and internal audit functions, to assist City Council in
holding itself and City administrators accountable, and for this office to be based
on the best practices, insights, and experience observed in other major Canadian
cities that have municipal Auditors General, the intention of which will be to
further strengthen the City’s audit and financial functions and inspire public
confidence and faith among taxpayers that the City of Vancouver and Vancouver
City Council are providing the best possible stewardship over public funds while
actively and continuously seeking to:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 23
• better identify and mitigate risks the City faces,
• improve accountability,
• strengthen management controls, and
• enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of City operations
FURTHER THAT a target date of March 1, 2020, be set for the appointment of
an Independent Auditor General, with an initial office budget of $1 million
annually, and with the funds to be integral to the City’s 2020 Operating Budget
and recouped from savings and efficiencies identified by the Auditor General in
subsequent City of Vancouver Budget years.
B. THAT a committee of Council be formed, comprised of all eleven elected
members of Council, and consistent with Section 161 of the Vancouver Charter, x
to direct the establishment and implementation of an Independent Auditor
General Office for the City of Vancouver, including directing the search for and
appointment of an Auditor General, in consultation with, and based upon
recommendations from such bodies as the Canadian Audit and Accountability
Foundation (CAAF) as well as other relevant authorities that Council may deem
appropriate (e.g., consultation with BC’s Auditor General for Local Government,
offices of Auditors General across Canada), with a target date of no later than
January 1, 2020, for the committee of Council to have met to review initial
recommendations for the implementation of an Auditor General office and
appointment of an Auditor General.
C. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to obtain three independent outside
legal opinions, as well as advice from appropriate provincial ministries and
advisory bodies such as the Union of British Columbia Municipalities etc.,
regarding the existing legislative provisions (such as those in the Vancouver
Charter and any specified provisions of the Community Charter and the Local
Government Act that apply to Vancouver), under which an Independent Auditor
General office could operate without further enabling legislation, and for staff to
report back to Council on this specific question by December 1, 2019.
D. THAT Vancouver City Council request that the City’s Internal Audit (IA) Division,
which reports to the internal audit management team consisting of the city
manager, deputy city manager, director of finance, and director of legal services,
make a presentation to Council before the end of October 2019 with an overview
of the findings and recommendations of the City’s Internal Audit (IA) Division over
the past six years, with specific reference to performance / operational, financial
and compliance audits of various programs and business processes, and related
recommendations to City departments, including those specific to the
effectiveness of internal controls and efficiency of business processes.
E. THAT Vancouver City Council direct and/or otherwise empower the Mayor, on
behalf of Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver, to write to the
Premier of British Columbia with a formal request to the Provincial government,
should that prove to be necessary upon due consideration and evaluation of any
and all independent legal and advisory recommendations regarding existing
legislative frameworks surrounding the establishment of an Independent Auditor
General Office in the City of Vancouver, to initiate any legislative process or

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 24
processes provincially that may be required to provide for, but not be limited to,
any specific legal protections or powers that a City of Vancouver Auditor General
may require for the effective operation of an Independent Auditor General office
that may not otherwise be provided for in the Vancouver Charter or other existing
legislation, such as questions relating to:
 protection from legal liability related to the contents of an audit report (when
acting in good faith) ;
 the power to compel documents or examine a person under oath;
 provisions to ensure that privileged solicitor-client information disclosed to an
Auditor-General is not a waiver of privilege appropriate protection from
disclosure under freedom of information legislation.
Endnotes:
i The external Auditors appointed by Vancouver City Council are responsible for auditing
the City’s Financial Statements, the purpose of which is “to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report.” (2018 Annual Financial
Report).
The City’s Management is “responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the
[City’s] financial statements in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting
standards organizations, and for such internal control as management determines is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.” (2018 Annual Financial Report).
As noted by the City’s external Auditors in the City’s most recent Annual Financial
Report (2018): “Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Canadian generally accepted
auditing standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists” and further
that “Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.”
ii The City of Vancouver Internal Audit (IA) Division is a member of the Canadian Audit
and Accountability Foundation (CAAF) as well as the Association of Local Government
Auditors (ALGA), the Municipal Internal Auditors Association (MIAA), and the Institute of
Internal Auditors (IIA).
iii As part of the UBCM process in 2011, the Executive (2011) respectfully asked the
Minister for clarity and “to identify the problem [a provincial] MAG was intended to
resolve, how [a provincial] MAG fits into the overall local government accountability
system, what gaps there were in that system, if any, and whether any consideration had
been given to strengthening existing mechanisms as an alternative to developing a new
Office of the MAG if there were gaps.”
The UBCM Executive (2011) suggested to the Minister that MAG “policy development
could benefit from a broader perspective, and consideration of additional principles,”
such as:

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 25
 Respect for local government policy choices
 Respect for jurisdiction
 Build on existing systems, and
 Maximize public accountability benefits while respecting local autonomy
and recognizing local capacity.
iv Specifically, UBCM’s 2011 Context Paper notes the following:
 “Nova Scotia legislation requires a MAG for all municipalities, although only the
legislation specific to Halifax has been implemented. Discussions are ongoing
between the Union of Nova Scotia Municipalities and the Province about how
best to implement the 2008 legislation for all other municipalities.”
 “The only other MAG requirements in Canada are for municipalities with
populations greater than 100,000 in Quebec, and for the City of Toronto.”
 “… Ontario municipalities and the City of Winnipeg are specifically empowered to
appoint a MAG, but are not required to do so (examples of those that have are
Ottawa and Oshawa).”
 “More generalized legislative authority allows Alberta and BC local governments
to appoint a MAG, and this power has been used by Edmonton and Calgary.”
v UBCM’s 2011 scan did not indicate a specific requirement for a Municipal Auditor
General, or specific municipal empowerment to appoint a MAG, for local governments in
the provinces of Saskatchewan, Manitoba (except Winnipeg), Quebec (under 100,000),
New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, and Newfoundland, UBCM expressed the
opinion that these jurisdictions “may have sufficient generalized powers to appoint a
MAG, under the same types of authorities as are available in Alberta and BC.” (see table
below):
vi In 2012, the Government of British Columbia established an Auditor General for Local
Government (AGLG) office by means of the Auditor General for Local Government Act.
The role of British Columbia’s Auditor General for Local Government is advisory, not
supervisory, and as such the office does not comment on the policy decisions or
objectives of locally elected officials, impose requirements, or duplicate existing financial
accountability mechanisms;.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 26
British Columbia’s Auditor General for Local Government Act states that the specific
purpose of the Auditor General for Local Government is “to conduct performance audits
of the operations of local governments in order to provide local governments with
objective information and relevant advice that will assist them in their accountability to
their communities for the stewardship of public assets and the achievement of value for
money in their operations.”
Performance audits, as performed by the office of the Auditor General for Local
Government, largely serve to identify “value-for-money” best practices that can be
highlighted for the benefit of all local governments in the province and are not the same
as traditional financial audits.
British Columbia’s Office of the Auditor General for Local Government has an annual
budget of just $2.6 million and serves 190 local governments ranging in size from 250 to
over 500,000 people, with 10 municipalities having populations greater than 100,000
people.
The Annual Report of the Auditor General for Local Government, covering the period
April 1, 2018 through March 31, 2019, indicates that there were five audit-related reports
released during 2018/19 (i.e., two performance audits, three AGLG perspectives
booklets, and the substantial completion of one other complex audit on drinking water).
British Columbia’s Auditor General for Local Government, Gordon Ruth, has publicly
stated that his office does not have the resources to conduct more than a few selected
performance audits each year.
vii UBCM’s research in 2011 noted that, as with provincial Auditors General who are
appointed by the elected body representing the government entity being audited, “and
report to that body,” most Municipal Auditors General in Canada have this same
appointment and reporting structure (i.e. they are appointed by, and report to, the
municipal Council), with the one exception being Nova Scotia (in 2011) where
implementation had not yet taken place and where Municipal Auditors General were to
be appointed by the Minister and report to the Council(s) being audited, with a copy of all
reports to the Minister.
viii Section 180 (4) of the Vancouver Charter (Indemnification of employees) states that
“The council may by by-law provide that the city will, to the extent therein set out,
indemnify its officers and employees, members of its council or any public service
organization against a claim for damages against an officer or employee, members of its
council or public service organizations or any of them arising out of the performance of
his or its duties and, in addition, pay legal costs incurred in a court proceeding arising
out of the claim.”
ix The City of Vancouver is a member of the Canadian Audit and Accountability
Foundation and thereby subscribes to the Foundation’s inherent belief “that
accountability is best served by auditors with the knowledge and skills to produce reports
that make an impact, oversight bodies able to effectively discharge their responsibilities,
and managers who can implement audit recommendations to improve their
organization’s performance.”

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 27
The Canadian Audit and Accountability Foundation is a not-for-profit organization
dedicated to promoting and strengthening public sector performance audit, oversight,
and accountability in Canada and abroad through research, education, and knowledge
sharing.
The Canadian Audit and Accountability Foundation has worked since 1980, with the
support of its members and stakeholders, to assist all parties to the accountability
relationship (i.e., oversight bodies, management, and the auditors who serve the
accountability relationship) to improve the performance and accountability of public
bodies, with resources, tools, and training to carry out their respective responsibilities,
and by providing a national focal point for knowledge sharing and networking that fosters
Canada-wide collaboration and discussion on issues of mutual interest;
x Section 161 of the Vancouver Charter requires a 2/3 vote of all members of Council in
order to delegate any executive or administrative powers exercisable by Council to a
committee comprised of members of Council.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT A be amended as follows:
• Insert the phrase “affirm support for” between the words “Council” and “establish”
• Insert “ing” to the end of the word “establish”;
• Strike the phrase “one that would report directly to Council independent of the
City’s management and internal audit functions,”;
• Insert the phrase “directly report to and” between the words “to” and “assist”;
• Strike the phrase “inspire public confidence and faith among taxpayers” and
substitute with “to ensure”;
• Insert the phrase “public assets and the achievement of value for money in their
operations,” between the words “over” and “while”;
• Strike the word “and” after “strengthen management controls,”;
• Insert a new bullet point that reads “provide objective information and relevant
advice to assist in accountability of City operations, and”;
• Insert a new bullet point that reads “determine delivery of value and services
consistent with City-established priorities, policies, strategies, and codes of
conduct.”;
• Insert the phrase “the fiscal year” between “FURTHER THAT” and “2020”;
• Strike the phrase “with an initial office budget of up to $1 million annually, and
with the funds to be integral to the City’s 2020 Operating Budget” and substitute
with the phrase “to be funded from the City’s Operating Budget”;
FURTHER THAT B be amended as follows:
• Strike the phrase “comprised of all eleven elected members of Council, and”;
• Insert the phrase “and working with the office of the City Manager or designate
to” between the words “Vancouver Charter,” and “direct”;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 28
• Strike the phrase “), with a target date of no later than January 1, 2020, for the
committee of Council to have met to review initial recommendations for the
implementation of an Auditor General office and appointment of an Auditor
General.”;
FURTHER THAT C be amended as follows:
• Strike the word “three”;
• Strike the phrase “by December 1, 2019” and substitute with the phrase “before
the end of January 2020.”; and
FURTHER THAT D be amended as follows:
• Strike the phrase “October 2019” and replace with the phrase “January 2020”;
• Insert the phrase “; FURTHER THAT the report back address the City’s current
governance model for audit functions, the role and workplan of the Internal Audit
Division, as well as any potential impacts to staffing or function of IA Division
concurrent with an Independent Auditor General Office.” at the end.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT A be amended to strike the phrase “affirm support for establishing” and substitute
with the word “establish”;
FURTHER THAT B be amended as follows:
• Insert the word “sub” before the word “committee” ;
• Strike the phrase “and working with the office of the City Manager or designate”;
• Insert the phrase “, etc.), and with support as required from the office of the City
Manager or designate.” at the end; and
FURTHER THAT D be amended to strike the phrase “FURTHER THAT the report back
address” and substitute with the phrase “and FURTHER THAT their presentation to
Council include information regarding”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05040)
(Councillors De Genova and Wiebe absent for the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried unanimously, the amendment as amended
was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05041) with Councillor Wiebe absent for the
vote.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 29
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following bullet point be inserted at the end of the first paragraph in A:
• assess that programs and services are achieving their intended objectives and
outcomes.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05042)
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
The amendments having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05043) with Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council establish an Independent Auditor General Office
for the City of Vancouver to directly report to and assist City Council in holding
itself and City administrators accountable, and for this office to be based on the
best practices, insights, and experience observed in other major Canadian cities
that have municipal Auditors General, the intention of which will be to further
strengthen the City’s audit and financial functions and to ensure that the City of
Vancouver and Vancouver City Council are providing the best possible
stewardship over public assets and the achievement of value for money in their
operations, while actively and continuously seeking to:
• better identify and mitigate risks the City faces,
• improve accountability,
• strengthen management controls,
• enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of City operations,
• provide objective information and relevant advice to assist in
accountability of City operations,
• determine delivery of value and services consistent with City-established
priorities, policies, strategies, and codes of conduct, and
• assess that programs and services are achieving their intended
objectives and outcomes;
FURTHER THAT the fiscal year 2020, be set for the appointment of an
Independent Auditor General, to be funded from the City’s Operating Budget and
recouped from savings and efficiencies identified by the Auditor General in
subsequent City of Vancouver Budget years.
B. THAT a subcommittee of Council be formed, consistent with Section 161 of the
Vancouver Charter, to direct the establishment and implementation of an
Independent Auditor General Office for the City of Vancouver, including directing
the search for and appointment of an Auditor General, in consultation with, and
based upon recommendations from such bodies as the Canadian Audit and
Accountability Foundation (CAAF) as well as other relevant authorities that
Council may deem appropriate (e.g., consultation with BC’s Auditor General for

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 30
Local Government, offices of Auditors General across Canada, etc.), and with
support as required from the office of the City Manager or designate.
C. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to obtain independent outside legal
opinions, as well as advice from appropriate provincial ministries and advisory
bodies such as the Union of British Columbia Municipalities etc., regarding the
existing legislative provisions (such as those in the Vancouver Charter and any
specified provisions of the Community Charter and the Local Government Act
that apply to Vancouver), under which an Independent Auditor General office
could operate without further enabling legislation, and for staff to report back to
Council on this specific question before the end of January 2020.
D. THAT Vancouver City Council request that the City’s Internal Audit (IA) Division,
which reports to the internal audit management team consisting of the City
Manager, Deputy City Manager, Director of Finance, and Director of Legal
Services, make a presentation to Council before the end of January 2020 with an
overview of the findings and recommendations of the City’s Internal Audit (IA)
Division over the past six years, with specific reference to performance /
operational, financial and compliance audits of various programs and business
processes, and related recommendations to City departments, including those
specific to the effectiveness of internal controls and efficiency of business
processes; and
FURTHER THAT their presentation to Council include information regarding the
City’s current governance model for audit functions, the role and work plan of the
Internal Audit Division, as well as any potential impacts to staffing or function of
IA Division concurrent with an Independent Auditor General Office.
E. THAT Vancouver City Council direct and/or otherwise empower the Mayor, on
behalf of Vancouver City Council and the City of Vancouver, to write to the
Premier of British Columbia with a formal request to the Provincial government,
should that prove to be necessary upon due consideration and evaluation of any
and all independent legal and advisory recommendations regarding existing
legislative frameworks surrounding the establishment of an Independent Auditor
General Office in the City of Vancouver, to initiate any legislative process or
processes provincially that may be required to provide for, but not be limited to,
any specific legal protections or powers that a City of Vancouver Auditor General
may require for the effective operation of an Independent Auditor General office
that may not otherwise be provided for in the Vancouver Charter or other existing
legislation, such as questions relating to:
• protection from legal liability related to the contents of an audit report
(when acting in good faith);
• the power to compel documents or examine a person under oath; and
• provisions to ensure that privileged solicitor-client information disclosed to
an Auditor-General is not a waiver of privilege appropriate protection from
disclosure under freedom of information legislation.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 31
4. A Collaborative and New Approach to Oppenheimer Park and Other Public Spaces
At the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on October 2, 2019, Council
referred the above motion to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting
on October 23, 2019, in order to continue with previously registered speakers, debate and
decision.
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
Councillor De Genova rose on a Point of Information on whether or not the motion was in order.
The City Manager and Deputy City Clerk responded.
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is experiencing unprecedented housing and mental health and
addiction issues;
2. In recent years, we have seen regular annual encampments in parks and sites
across the city, including Oppenheimer Park;
3. There are a significant number of persons currently living on the city’s streets, or
out of their cars, due to the shortage of appropriately affordable housing who
simply require access to shower and washroom facilities to support them on their
path to permanent housing and employment;
4. All levels of government need to work together to address the systemic factors
that prevent people from accessing safe, secure housing and basic health care,
along with appropriate mental health and addiction services.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to develop a collaborative decampment plan to go to
the Vancouver Park Board for approval with the goal of restoring the park for
broad public use, including the expansion of the positive activations program.
B. THAT the City, in partnership with key partners, create a dedicated, coordinated
cross-jurisdictional Homeless Outreach Services Team (HOST) that serves to
connect unsheltered and sheltered people to appropriate housing, health and
support services.
C. THAT the City and the Park Board explore opportunities to collaborate, and
potentially expand upon, the initial success of the peer-based Park Stewardship
pilot program with the aim to provide access to daily showers and washrooms at
specific field houses in city parks for those in need of this specific form of
support, with the facilities to be kept clean and supervised by peer stewards;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 32
FURTHER THAT the City and Park Board explore options for identified needed
services, such as a community kitchen, additional accessible laundry and drying
facilities, and 24-hour sanitation facilities with running water.
D. THAT the City commit to supporting and seeking funding from the Provincial and
Federal governments to enable and expand supported employment initiatives
such as the aforementioned Park Stewardship Program, street ambassadors,
and other employment opportunities for individuals to gain income, build skills
and foster esteem.
E. THAT Council direct staff, in collaboration with community service agencies, to
undertake a review of Downtown Eastside services, with the goal of creating a
coordinated service delivery framework that effectively delivers a range of
services, including a coordinated outreach strategy, critical mental health and
addiction treatment, as well as access to appropriate housing, basic health care
needs, and other services.
F. THAT Council support the Vancouver Police Department (VPD) in its call for
increased mental health support through a new improved method of delivering
Cars 87 and 88, and related funding from Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH).
G. THAT Council call on the Province to increase vital wraparound services (mental
health, addiction treatment, social assistance etc.) in the next provincial budget
cycle.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT A be amended as follows:
• Strike the word “decampment” and substitute with the word “voluntary”
• Strike the phrase “restoring the park for broad public use,” and substitute with the
phrase “providing tenters with options that are better than their current situation
including permanent or temporary housing/shelter options that are accessible,
safe, warm, and dignified”;
FURTHER THAT C be amended as follows:
• Insert the phrase “, including Oppenheimer Park” between the words “parks” and
“for”;
• Insert the phrase “at Oppenheimer Park.” in the second paragraph at the end of
the word “water”;
FURTHER THAT D be amended strike the phrase “, street ambassadors,” and insert the
word “peer-based” between the words “supported” and “employment”;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 33
FURTHER THAT F be struck;
FURTHER THAT G be amended to insert the phrase “and housing” between the phrase
“etc.)” and the word “in”; and
FURTHER THAT the motion be amended to insert H and I as follows:
H. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to engage in a
more coordinated approach with provincial ministers and staff to work
aggressively to pursue land and funding for modular housing suitable for
people who are homeless;
I. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to work
aggressively for winter housing and shelter options for over 600
unsheltered Vancouver residents; options that are better than tenting in
parks, alcoves, and alleys, that are accessible, safe, warm and dignified
and where people can stay 24/7.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT by Councillor Boyle
THAT C be amended in the second paragraph to strike the word “at” and substitute for
the word “near”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05044)
(Councillor De Genova and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
At 8:25 pm, Councillor Dominato asked the Chair to rule if H was in order. The Chair ruled that
H was in order and that the Committee could sever the amended components.
The Committee agreed to separate the components of the amendment as amended for the
vote.
A. THAT Council direct staff to develop a collaborative voluntary plan to go to the
Vancouver Park Board for approval with the goal of providing tenters with options
that are better than their current situation including permanent or temporary
housing/shelter options that are accessible, safe, warm, and dignified including
the expansion of the positive activations program.
LOST (Vote No. 05045 )
(Councillors Bligh, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 34
C. THAT the City and the Park Board explore opportunities to collaborate, and
potentially expand upon, the initial success of the peer-based Park Stewardship
pilot program with the aim to provide access to daily showers and washrooms at
specific field houses in city parks, including Oppenheimer Park, for those in need
of this specific form of support, with the facilities to be kept clean and supervised
by peer stewards;
CARRIED (Vote No. 05046)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
FURTHER THAT the City and Park Board explore options for identified needed
services, such as a community kitchen, additional accessible laundry and drying
facilities, and 24-hour sanitation facilities with running water near Oppenheimer
Park.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05047)
(Councillors Bligh and De Genova opposed)
(Councillors Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
D. THAT the City commit to supporting and seeking funding from the Provincial and
Federal governments to enable and expand supported peer-based employment
initiatives such as the aforementioned Park Stewardship Program and other
employment opportunities for individuals to gain income, build skills and foster
esteem.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05048)
(Councillors Carr and De Genova opposed)
(Councillors Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
FURTHER THAT F be struck.
LOST (Vote No. 05049)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillors Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
G. THAT Council call on the Province to increase vital wraparound services (mental
health, addiction treatment, social assistance etc.) and housing in the next
provincial budget cycle.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05050)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillors Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 35
H. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to engage in a more
coordinated approach with Provincial Ministers and staff to work aggressively to
pursue land and funding for modular housing suitable for people who are
homeless.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05051)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova and Fry opposed)
(Councillor Dominato abstained from the vote)
(Councillors Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
I. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to work aggressively
for winter housing and shelter options for over 600 unsheltered Vancouver
residents; options that are better than tenting in parks, alcoves, and alleys, that
are accessible, safe, warm and dignified and where people can stay 24/7.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05052)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillors Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
At 8:49 pm, Councillor De Genova rose on a Point of Order and raised concerns that the
language in H impugns City staff according to the Code of Conduct. The Chair ruled that
Councillor De Genova’s interpretation of H was not the appropriate interpretation as it refers to a
more collaborative approach with other levels of government staff and not City staff.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 8:56 pm and reconvened 9:06 pm
* * * * *
Following the recess, the Chair reiterated the ruling that H was not out of order as the language
provides a more clear direction to pursue housing in a more aggressive and coordinated
approach.
Councillor De Genova asked the Chair to rule on whether I was in order on the basis that it is
redundant. The Chair ruled that I was not out of order as the language provides more clear and
aggressive action.
Councillor De Genova challenged the ruling of the Chair.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 36
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Chair’s ruling of I be challenged.
LOST (Vote No. 05053)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr, Fry, Swanson and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillors Bligh and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
(Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
A two-thirds majority of those present is required to overrule the ruling of the Chair, therefore the
ruling of the Chair was sustained.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT B be amended to strike the phrase “create a dedicated, coordinated cross
jurisdictional homeless outreach services team (HOST)” and substitute with the phrase
“convene agencies that deliver outreach services in the city to explore establishing a
coordinated interagency and multidisciplinary homeless outreach services team.”
CARRIED (Vote No. 05054)
(Councillors De Genova and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT C be amended to insert the phrase “, in partnership with the relevant unions,”
between the words “Board” and “explore”;
FURTHER THAT D be amended to insert the phrase “, in partnership with relevant
unions.” at the end; and
FURTHER THAT E be amended to insert the phrase “seek Provincial funding and
participation to” between the words “to” and “undertake”.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT C be amended to strike the phrase “in partnership” and substitute with the word
“engaging”;
FURTHER THAT D be amended to strike the phrase “in partnership” and substitute with
the words “while engaging”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05055)
(Councillors De Genova, Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 37
The amendment to the amendment having carried unanimously, the amendment as amended
was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05056) with Councillors De Genova,
Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT A be struck and substituted with the following:
A. THAT Council direct staff to develop a collaborative plan to go to the Vancouver
Park Board for approval with options that are better for people dealing with
homelessness in parks than their current situation including permanent
or temporary housing/shelter/open space options that are accessible, safe, and
warm, while restoring parks for broad public use, including the expansion of the
Vancouver Park Board’s positive activations program.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT A be amended to insert the phrase “and current park residents” between the words
“Board” and “for”.
not put
At 9:42 pm, Councillor De Genova rose on a Point of Order and noted that Councillor
Swanson’s amendment to the amendment should be ruled out of order as it impacts the safety
of City workers.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 9:43 pm and reconvened 9:45 pm
* * * * *
Following the recess, the Chair ruled in favour of Councillor De Genova’s Point of Order
and Councillor Swanson’s amendment to the amendment was ruled out of order as per
Section 4.3(a) of the Procedure By-law.
The amendment was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 05057) with Councillors De Genova and
Swanson opposed and Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be extended to complete debate and decision on Item 4.
LOST HAVING NOT
RECEIVED THE UNANIMOUS CONSENT
(Councillor Kirby-Yung opposed)
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 38
At 9:58 pm, Councillor Kirby-Yung rose on a Point of Order and asked the Chair to rule on if a
time constraint overrules a Council member’s procedural right to sever. The Chair informed
members that in order to close debate and call the vote, a 2/3 vote of the Council members
present is needed.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT debate close and the vote be called.
CARRIED
(Councillors Boyle, Kirby-Yung and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee reconsider the decision to extend the meeting to complete debate
and decision on Item 4.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be extended to call the vote for Item 4.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The Committee agreed to separate the components of the motion, as amended for the vote.
A. THAT Council direct staff to develop a collaborative plan to go to the Vancouver
Park Board for approval with options that are better for people dealing with
homelessness in parks than their current situation including permanent
or temporary housing/shelter/open space options that are accessible, safe, and
warm, while restoring parks for broad public use, including the expansion of the
Vancouver Park Board’s positive activations program.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05058)
(Councillors De Genova and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
B. THAT the City of Vancouver, in partnership with key partners, convene agencies
that deliver outreach services in the city to explore establishing a coordinated
interagency and multidisciplinary homeless outreach services team that serves to

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 39
connect unsheltered and sheltered people to appropriate housing, health and
support services.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05059)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
C. THAT the City and the Park Board, engaging with the relevant unions, explore
opportunities to collaborate, and potentially expand upon, the initial success of
the peer-based Park Stewardship pilot program with the aim to provide access to
daily showers and washrooms at specific field houses in city parks, including
Oppenheimer Park, for those in need of this specific form of support, with the
facilities to be kept clean and supervised by peer stewards;
FURTHER THAT the City and Park Board explore options for identified needed
services, such as a community kitchen, additional accessible laundry and drying
facilities, and 24-hour sanitation facilities with running water near Oppenheimer
park.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05060)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
D. THAT the City commit to supporting and seeking funding from the Provincial and
Federal governments to enable and expand supported peer-based employment
initiatives such as the aforementioned Park Stewardship Program, street
ambassadors, and other employment opportunities for individuals to gain income,
build skills and foster esteem, while engaging with the relevant unions.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05061)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
E. THAT Council direct staff, in collaboration with community service agencies, to
seek Provincial funding and participation to undertake a review of Downtown
Eastside services, with the goal of creating a coordinated service delivery
framework that effectively delivers a range of services, including a coordinated
outreach strategy, critical mental health and addiction treatment, as well as
access to appropriate housing, basic health care needs, and other services.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05062)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 40
F. THAT Council support the Vancouver Police Department (VPD) in its call for
increased mental health support through a new improved method of delivering
Cars 87 and 88, and related funding from Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH).
CARRIED (Vote No. 05063)
(Councillors De Genova and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
G. THAT Council call on the Province to increase vital wraparound services (mental
health, addiction treatment, social assistance etc.) and housing in the next
provincial budget cycle.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05064)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
H. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to engage in a more
coordinated approach with Provincial Ministers and staff to work aggressively to
pursue land and funding for modular housing suitable for people who are
homeless.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05065)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick and Mayor Stewart absent for the vote)
I. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to work aggressively
for winter housing and shelter options for over 600 unsheltered Vancouver
residents; options that are better than tenting in parks, alcoves, and alleys, that
are accessible, safe, warm and dignified and where people can stay 24/7.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05066)
(Councillor De Genova opposed)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to develop a collaborative plan to go to the Vancouver
Park Board for approval with options that are better for people dealing with
homelessness in parks than their current situation including permanent
or temporary housing/shelter/open space options that are accessible, safe, and
warm, while restoring parks for broad public use, including the expansion of the
Vancouver Park Board’s positive activations program.
B. THAT the City of Vancouver, in partnership with key partners, convene agencies
that deliver outreach services in the city to explore establishing a coordinated
interagency and multidisciplinary homeless outreach services team that serves to
connect unsheltered and sheltered people to appropriate housing, health and
support services.
C. THAT the City and the Park Board, engaging with the relevant unions, explore
opportunities to collaborate, and potentially expand upon, the initial success of

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 41
the peer-based Park Stewardship pilot program with the aim to provide access to
daily showers and washrooms at specific field houses in city parks, including
Oppenheimer Park, for those in need of this specific form of support, with the
facilities to be kept clean and supervised by peer stewards;
FURTHER THAT the City and Park Board explore options for identified needed
services, such as a community kitchen, additional accessible laundry and drying
facilities, and 24-hour sanitation facilities with running water near Oppenheimer
park.
D. THAT the City commit to supporting and seeking funding from the Provincial and
Federal governments to enable and expand supported peer-based employment
initiatives such as the aforementioned Park Stewardship Program, street
ambassadors, and other employment opportunities for individuals to gain income,
build skills and foster esteem, while engaging with the relevant unions.
E. THAT Council direct staff, in collaboration with community service agencies, to
seek Provincial funding and participation to undertake a review of Downtown
Eastside services, with the goal of creating a coordinated service delivery
framework that effectively delivers a range of services, including a coordinated
outreach strategy, critical mental health and addiction treatment, as well as
access to appropriate housing, basic health care needs, and other services.
F. THAT Council support the Vancouver Police Department (VPD) in its call for
increased mental health support through a new improved method of delivering
Cars 87 and 88, and related funding from Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH).
G. THAT Council call on the Province to increase vital wraparound services (mental
health, addiction treatment, social assistance etc.) and housing in the next
provincial budget cycle.
H. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to engage in a more
coordinated approach with Provincial Ministers and staff to work aggressively to
pursue land and funding for modular housing suitable for people who are
homeless.
I. THAT Council direct the Mayor and City of Vancouver staff to work aggressively
for winter housing and shelter options, for over 600 unsheltered Vancouver
residents; options that are better than tenting in parks, alcoves, and alleys, that
are accessible, safe, warm and dignified and where people can stay 24/7.
* * * * *
On October 23, 2019, the Committee recessed at 10:10 pm and
reconvened on October 24, 2019, at 6:14 pm.
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 42
On October 24, 2019 at 6:18 pm, Councillor Carr relinquished the Chair to participate in debate.
Councillor Kirby-Yung assumed the Chair.
5. Increasing Affordable Housing Options through Character House Incentives in RS
Zones
At the Regular Council meeting on October 22, 2019, Council referred the following motion to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on October 23, 2019, in
order to hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from two speakers in support and two speakers opposed to the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. There are 60,000 RS-zoned lots across the city that can help to address
the city’s housing and affordability crisis, and accommodate growth in
part through character house retention options and the adaptive reuse of
character homes, while also supporting the City’s climate change
objectives and Greenest City goals related to waste reduction;
2. Demolition of character housing in Vancouver is a major contributor to
our city’s affordable housing crisis, whereby properties are redeveloped
and liveable homes replaced with homes typically built for a significantly
more expensive luxury housing market, the frequent result of which is the
elimination of affordable secondary suites and the displacement of
renters;
3. The City of Vancouver previously undertook a multi-year Character
House Zoning Review, with extensive public consultation, in order to curb
the high number of character and heritage house demolitions that take
place every year in the city;
4. Many of the publically supported options identified in the City’s multi-year
Character House Zoning Review have never been implemented and the
demolition of sustainably-built, enduring housing stock continues virtually
unabated;
5. Making character house retention tools available can help to create the
range of affordable housing choices needed in our city and add definition
and vibrancy to neighbourhoods while retaining neighbourhood character
– for example, conditional zones such as RT7 and RT8 in Kitsilano have
led to some of our city’s most vibrant, family-friendly neighbourhoods and
hitherto resulted in few demolitions;
6. Many houses in the city have been converted to have two secondary
suites, with three rental suites in total (i.e., top floor, main floor, and

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 43
basement), although one of these units is usually unauthorized unless
changes can be made to allow all three units through the Secondary
Suite Program provides alternatives to the Building By-law to make them
legal and safe, for affordable rentals and owners’ mortgage helpers;
7. The City’s current Secondary Suite Program already allows relaxations to
the Building Bylaws and Zoning and Development Bylaws, such as
waiving sprinkler requirements, allowing lower ceiling heights, requiring
only one exit, removal of interior stairs, etc., for one secondary suite; that
could be amended to allow for two secondary suites;
8. The Character House Zoning Review included years of consultation, and
if character and heritage houses are to be meaningfully retained and
adaptively reused as intended by the review and City policy, further
changes are required to the City’s RS zoning, By-laws, and Secondary
Suite Program, otherwise an increasing amount of our city’s heritage and
character house stock will be lost along with the opportunities they
represent for creating affordable rental housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct Staff to report back to Council, on a priority basis in
Q1 of 2020, to further incentivize the retention of character houses as a
means to facilitate the rapid creation of a diverse supply of affordable
rental housing as outlined in Appendix A below, including the following:
a) Adding conditional zoning mechanisms, similar to Kitsilano RT7 &
RT8 zones, for all RS zones in the city, with an outright 0.5 FSR
and conditionally increased to full FSR in two distinct housing
approval streams, including one fast track stream that offers
enhanced incentives and rapid approval for character house
renovation/adaptation/retention, and a separate approval stream
for non-character houses with new construction;
b) As a further option for character house retention, allow two
secondary suites through the Secondary Suite Program provides
alternatives to the Building By-law to make them legal and safe,
for affordable rentals and owners’ mortgage helpers, with any
required related changes to the Vancouver Building Bylaw, the
Secondary Suite Program, and other bylaws and policies;
c) Provide strategic options, exemptions, and changes to the 2019
Vancouver Building By-law, and other City policies and
guidelines, to allow greater flexibility for character and heritage
house retention, for example, by exploring alternative options to
fire sprinkler requirements for a character house with up to one
secondary suite;
d) Explore other options as incentives for character house retention
as outlined in Appendix A below, including potential tax incentives

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 44
and local area heritage density transfers for Heritage A listed
properties.
B. THAT increased resources be allocated in the City’s 2020 Budget,
preferably through a reassignment of staff resources, to support the
actions under this motion and an enhanced recently established
Renovation Centre, specifically specialized staff and new processes that
would significantly speed up and simplify the approval process for
character and heritage house renovations and the implementation of
retention incentive programs.
C. THAT Council direct Staff to report back on character house demolition
rates one year after the implementation of any and all of the enhanced
character house retention policy measures as outlined above.
* * * * *
APPENDIX A – Enhanced Character and Heritage House Retention Strategies and
Incentives
The following are clarifications regarding the above resolutions and Council directions to
staff:
● Adding conditional zoning mechanisms, similar to Kitsilano RT7 & RT8 zones,
with a low outright floor space ratio of 0.50 floor space ratio (FSR) in all RS
zones, (except for RS3 & RS3A) where further increases in density, and
development for a laneway house, secondary suite or duplex, are subject to two
distinct approval streams, with one stream which would offer enhanced
incentives for character house retention and a second stream for non-character
house lots intended for full demolition followed by new construction (Note: RS3
and RS3A would have an equivalent but different low outright calculation method
based on an adjustment to their current FSR formula).
1. STREAM ONE: To increase conditional options beyond current
incentives to retain character houses (incentives which already include:
0.75 FSR + 0.16 Laneway House; 0.75 FSR Multiple Conversion
Dwelling, “MCD”; 0.85 FSR with Infill; 0.85 FSR MCD with Infill), by
providing an additional incentive to allow two secondary suites (for rental
only, not for strata MCD) in the main house, with conversion under the
Secondary Suite Program to ensure acceptable safety and liveability
standards, and any related changes to the Secondary Suite Program and
Vancouver Building By-law that may be required to allow this;
2. STREAM TWO: Allowing density above outright 0.50 FSR for non-
character house lots, to the full conditional 0.70 FSR (along with
development options as per current zoning) provided that specific design
guidelines are followed, and that at least one secondary suite is provided,
or – on lots with over 49 ft. frontage – that a duplex is provided in the
main dwelling when the existing house is demolished (except where
duplexes are not currently allowed as in RS3 & RS3A zones), with an

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 45
option included for the duplex to have an internal connection if one owner
has both units, or the owners agree in writing, that could be easily closed
off as would be required if the units are to be separated for strata for
future downsizing or for the next owner;
● Incentivizing design guidelines for character house retention and non-character
house lots to ensure quality of design and materials and an appropriate fit into a
neighbourhood character streetscape.
● Expanding the Alternate Requirements under Section 11, while addressing life
safety issues, as may be approved by the Chief Building Official from time to
time, with the aim to provide flexibility and alternatives to current building code
requirements where a character house or heritage building was built under
building code requirements of an older construction era, including clear
explanatory guidelines for the public.
● Exploring alternative options to fire sprinkler requirements for a character house
with up to one secondary suite, while addressing life safety issues, when the
main house is not being substantially renovated and only minor renovations are
proposed, or when a strata infill is added in rear yard, limit sprinklers on the main
existing house so that sprinklers are only required to protect the side yard means
of egress.
● Exploring alternative options for laneway house sewer services for an existing
character house by allowing appropriate discretion to the Director of Planning
and Chief Building Official in order to retain existing mature trees landscape on a
private property through amendments to the Sewer Bylaw 8093.
● Exploring alternatives to basements in a character house being counted as a
storey under the Fire Code when the main floor is more than 6 feet above grade,
which many character houses are, especially if it is raised to create a liveable
basement. If a basement is counted as a storey, it causes a typical 2-½ storey
house to be counted as 4 storeys which means Part 3 of the VBBL (for
multifamily construction) would apply and detrimentally so.
● Amending the Secondary Suite Program, and VBBL 2019 update as may be
required, to allow two secondary suites to be converted through the Secondary
Suite Program as an incentive exclusively for character house retention.
● Providing the recently established Renovation Centre with specialized staff,
processes and resources, to be included in the 2020 budget, to improve the
approval of renovations and character/heritage retention incentive programs.
● Seeking potential tax incentives and options in RS zones for the retention of
heritage houses listed on the City of Vancouver heritage register, such as for
property tax waivers as part of a Heritage Revitalization Agreement (HRA), as
allowed in other areas of the city, and/or by requesting that the province waive
the Additional School Tax.

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 46
● Exploring local heritage density transfers, as part of a Heritage Revitalization
Agreement (HRA), for exceptional heritage listed "A" properties in RS zones that
are vulnerable to demolition (but where part or all of the increased density could
not be accommodated onsite without ruining the heritage values), with the
density transfer to be landed consistent with a community supported scale and
location and within the same neighbourhood, but not for addition to the Density
Bank.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT A be amended as follows:
• Insert the phrase “on measures” between the words “2020,” and “to”;
• Strike the phrase “facilitate the rapid creation of a diverse supply of
affordable housing as outlined in Appendix A below,” and substitute with
the phrase ““encourage the provision of additional rental suites,”
• Insert the phrase “exploring and assessing” between the words
“including” and “the”;
• Subsection (a) be amended as follows:
• Strike the word “adding”;
• Insert the phrase “that enable outcomes” between the words
“mechanisms” and “similar”;
• Strike the phrase “all RS zones in the city, with an outright 0.5 FSR
and conditionally increased to full FSR” and substitute with “areas
with high concentrations of pre-1940s homes with increased FSR
incentives for character retention;
• Strike the phrase “in two distinct housing approval streams,
including one fast” and substitute with the phrase “Creating a
faster”;
• Strike the word “rapid” and substitute with the word “streamlined”;
• Strike the phrase “, and a separate approval stream for
non-character houses with new construction”;
• Part of Subsection (a) be removed to create a new Subsection (b)
to read as “Creating a faster track stream that offers enhanced
incentives and streamlined approval for character house
renovation/adaption/retention;
• Subsection (c) be struck;
• Subsection (b) be changed to a new Subsection (c) and be amended as
follows:
• Strike the word “allow” and substitute with the word “explore”;
• Insert the phrase “or more” between the words “two” and
“secondary”;
• Strike the phrase “provides alternatives to the Building By-law to
make them legal and safe,”and substitute with the phrase “or by
expanding the Multiple Conversion Dwelling option”;
• Insert the phrase “to make them legal and safe” at the end;
• Subsection (d) – Strike the phrase “as outlined in Appendix A below,”;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 47
FURTHER THAT B be amended as follows:
• Insert the phrase “, subject to the report back in Q1 of 2020,” between the words
“THAT” and “increased”;
• Strike the word “2020” before the word “Budget”;
• Strike the phrase “preferably through a reassignment of staff resources”;
FURTHER THAT C be amended to insert the phrase “, subject to the report back in Q1
of 2020,” between the words “THAT” and “Council” and strike the phrase “as outlined
above.” and
FURTHER THAT Appendix A be struck.
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT by Councillor De Genova
THAT A be amended to strike the phrase “encourage the provision of additional rental
suites” and substitute with the phrase “facilitate the rapid creation of a diverse supply of
affordable rental housing, including rental suites and laneway homes,”.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05073)
(Councillors Boyle, Carr and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
The amendment to the amendment was put and carried; the amendment as amended was
CARRIED (Vote No. 05074) with Councillor Wiebe opposed and Councillor Hardwick abstaining
from the vote.
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added as D:
D. THAT staff consider how to use housing agreements to ensure that character
house owners who get incentives for character house retention provide at least
half or more of the resulting units at Housing Income Limits (HILs) rental rates or
below.
CARRIED (Vote No. 05075)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 48
The Committee agreed to separate the components of the amendment prior to the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
THAT A be amended to strike the phrase “potential tax incentives and” in Subsection (d).
LOST (Vote No. 05076)
(Councillors Bligh, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung and Wiebe opposed)
THAT A be amended to insert a new Subsection (e) to read “Consideration of the extent
to which retaining character homes aligns with Council’s affordable housing and climate
emergency targets.”
CARRIED (Vote No. 05077)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung and Wiebe opposed)
(Councillors De Genova, Dominato and Hardwick abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
The amendments having either carried or lost, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05079)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council, on a priority basis in Q1 of
2020, on measures to further incentivize the retention of character houses as a
means to facilitate the rapid creation of a diverse supply of affordable rental
housing, including rental suites and laneway homes, while exploring and
assessing the following:
a) Conditional zoning mechanisms, that enable outcomes similar to Kitsilano
RT7 & RT8 zones, for areas with high concentrations of pre-1940s homes
with increased FSR incentives for character retention;
b) Creating a faster track stream that offers enhanced incentives and
streamlined approval for character house renovation/adaptation/retention;
c) As a further option for character house retention, explore two or more
secondary suites through the Secondary Suite Program or by expanding
the Multiple Conversion Dwelling option for affordable rentals and owners’
mortgage helpers, with any required related changes to the Vancouver
Building Bylaw, the Secondary Suite Program, and other bylaws and
policies to make them legal and safe;
d) Explore other options as incentives for character house retention,
including potential tax incentives and local area heritage density transfers
for Heritage A listed properties;

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 49
e) Consideration of the extent to which retaining character homes aligns with
Council’s affordable housing and climate emergency targets.
B. THAT, subject to the report back in Q1 of 2020, increased resources be allocated
in the City’s Budget, to support the actions under this motion and an enhanced
recently established Renovation Centre, specifically specialized staff and new
processes that would significantly speed up and simplify the approval process for
character and heritage house renovations and the implementation of retention
incentive programs.
C. THAT, subject to the report back in Q1 of 2020, Council direct staff to report back
on character house demolition rates one year after the implementation of any
and all of the enhanced character house retention policy measures.
D. THAT staff consider how to use housing agreements to ensure that character
house owners who get incentives for character house retention provide at least
half or more of the resulting units at Housing Income Limits (HILs) rental rates or
below.
* * * * *
Councillor Carr resumed as Chair.
The Committee recessed at 8:16 pm and reconvened at 8:20 pm
* * * * *
6. Extinguishing Consumer Fireworks
At the Regular Council meeting on October 22, 2019, Council referred the following motion to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on October 23, 2019, in
order to hear from speakers.
The Committee heard from four speakers in support and nine speakers opposed to the motion.
* * * * *
At 9:54 pm, during the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be extended to complete hearing from speakers, debate and decision
on Items 6 and 7.
LOST HAVING NOT
RECEIVED THE UNANIMOUS CONSENT
(Councillor Swanson opposed)
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote due to Medical Leave)
* * * * *

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 50
MOVED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Fireworks are dangerous explosive items that can burn up to 1000 degrees
Celsius and create loud noises in the range of 150db. Safety guidelines
published by Natural Resources Canada requires a minimum 30m x 30m (100’ x
100’) clear space be used when setting off fireworks. The typical Vancouver lot is
only 10 m wide;
2. Consumer fireworks are a popular form of fireworks used for recreation, they
include noisemakers, ground spinners, sparklers and aerial fireworks. Display
Fireworks are fireworks designed to be used by professionals;1
3. Each year, Vancouver Police Department calls for service dramatically increase
during the five days leading up to October 31st. In a 2018 memo, Vancouver Fire
and Rescue Services compiled damages and cost over the last 12 years and
found that the average fire loss per year due to the use of consumer fireworks is
$379,000.00;
4. Vancouver is one of the only local cities that allow the sale and use of consumer
fireworks. Nearby cities that have banned fireworks due to excessive property
damage, injuries and costs to the communities include North Vancouver,
Coquitlam, Port Coquitlam, Pitt Meadows, Maple Ridge, Richmond, Delta,
Surrey, Langley, Langley Township, Abbotsford, Mission, Victoria, and Seattle
WA;
5. In 2007 Council approved amendments to the Fire By-law to restrict the purchase
and discharge of fireworks to individuals holding a permit issued by the Fire
Chief. The City of Vancouver fire bylaw currently restricts the sale of fireworks
except between October 25th and October 31st of each calendar year. Permit
holders must be 19 years of age or older and successfully complete the fire
department (on line) education and test regarding handling of fireworks;
6. Fireworks set off in urban areas have demonstrable and significant adverse
effect on wild animals.2 Research studies show that the noise from fireworks
causes a great amount of fear, stress and anxiety in wild animals. Other
documented effects include nesting birds and other small mammal parents
abandoning their nests leaving their defenseless babies behind. The panic can
sometimes cause so much disorientation that wildlife parents cannot locate their
nests and their babies die. Panic and disorientation from fireworks noise has also
resulted in birds flying into windows and buildings, or too far out to sea to escape
the noise;3
7. Fireworks set off in urban areas have demonstrable and significant adverse
effect on many domestic animals. In 2016 a mixed breed dog named Maggie was
killed 4 when spooked by fireworks she ran onto SkyTrain tracks. Each year the
BCSPCA issue warnings to public to protect and calm pets traumatized by
fireworks. Animal shelters typically see an increase in lost animals during

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 51
fireworks sessions and Veterinary Associations caution many animals injure
themselves in panicked attempts to escape the blasts;
8. Fireworks have environmental impacts though the release of poisonous
chemicals and airborne particles, including colourants and propellants like
copper, strontium, lithium, barium, aluminum, potassium and percholates.
Research has found that fireworks sourced airborne particulates have been
found to deplete lung defences more than pollution from traffic sources. Spent
fireworks particles and detritus make their wat into our waterways, atmosphere
and environment; 5 6
9. Fireworks can trigger PTSD for survivors of gun violence, war refugees, and
veterans; 7 8
10. Fireworks-related injuries disproportionally impact children and youth. In 2017,
eight people died and over 12,000 were injured badly enough to require medical
treatment in the United States, 50% of those casualties were to children and
youth under twenty; 9
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to work with Vancouver Fire
and Rescue Services and the Vancouver Police Department to report back in 2020 on a
plan to ban the retail sale of consumer fireworks to the public by 2021. Considerations
should include:
i. How to address enforcement and compliance with a ban on consumer
fireworks;
ii. Exemptions for how display fireworks can still be used as part of large
public events (Celebration of Light, New Year’s Eve etc.) and
cultural/religious occasions (Diwali etc.);
iii. An authorized Fire permit from the City of Vancouver to ignite, explode,
set off or detonate display fireworks within the guidelines and conditions
of the permit, Vancouver Fire Bylaw, and the Canadian Explosives
Regulations;
iv. Necessary amendments to the Fire By-law in order to facilitate a ban on
consumer fireworks.
1. http://www.nationalfireworks.ca/
2. https://www.forbes.com/sites/grrlscientist/2015/12/31/birds-flee-en-mass-from-new-
years-eve-fireworks/#b9dd8b378505
3. https://www.westsoundwildlife.org/wildlife/Coexisting/CO_Fireworks.html
4. https://bc.ctvnews.ca/dog-spooked-by-fireworks-killed-on-skytrain-tracks-1.3139826
5. http://theconversation.com/our-prettiest-pollutant-just-how-bad-are-fireworks-for-the-
environment-52451

Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, October 23 and 24, 2019 52
6. https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/es1016284
7. https://www.theguardian.com/society/2018/jul/04/fireworks-ptsd-fourth-of-july-
veterans-shooting-survivors
8. https://www.dw.com/en/germany-prepares-refugees-for-new-year-fireworks-over-
trauma-concerns/a-18949967
9. https://www.nsc.org/home-safety/tools-resources/seasonal-safety/summer/fireworks
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer debate and decision on Item 6 entitled, “Extinguishing Consumer
Fireworks,” to the Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, November 5, 2019, as
Unfinished Business;
FURTHER THAT Council refer Item 7 entitled, “Four Pillars Drug Strategy Review and
Additional Resources” to the Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, November 5, 2019,
as Unfinished Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote due to Medical Leave)
7. Four Pillars Drug Strategy Review and Additional Resources
At the Regular Council meeting on October 22, 2019, Council referred the following motion to
the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on October 23, 2019, in
order to hear from speakers.
This item was referred to the Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, November 5, 2019, as
Unfinished Business.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Boyle absent for the vote due to Medical Leave)
The Committee adjourned at 9:57 pm.
* * * * *

REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OCTOBER 24, 2019
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Thursday,
October 24, 2019 at 9:57 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the
recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Councillor Boyle (Medical Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Director, Legislative Operations
Tamarra Wong, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
October 23 and 24, 2019
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
1. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Liquid Asphalts for Paving
2. Amendments to the Procedure By-law No. 9756
3. Establishing an Independent Auditor General Office for the City of Vancouver
4. A Collaborative and New Approach to Oppenheimer Park and Other Public Spaces
5. Increasing Affordable Housing Options through Character House Incentives in RS Zones
6. Extinguishing Consumer Fireworks
7. Four Pillars Drug Strategy Review and Additional Resources
Items1 to 7

Regular Council
Minutes, Thursday, October 24, 2019 2
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of October 23 and 24, 2019, as contained in items 1 to
7, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 9:59 pm.
* * * * *