PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
OCTOBER 22, 2019
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, October 22, 2019, at 6:05 pm,
in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova*
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung*
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Tina Hildebrandt, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
The Mayor reminded Council that, based on advice from the City Clerk, it is not necessary for
Council to sit as Committee of the Whole during a Public Hearing; however, in order to comply
with the Procedure By-law, a motion to go into Committee of the Whole should be put to a vote
and failed by Council.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 22, 2019 2
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT this Council resolve itself into Committee of the Whole, Mayor Stewart in the
Chair, to consider proposed amendments to the Zoning and Development, CD-1, Sign,
and Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan by-laws.
LOST
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart
opposed)
(Councillors De Genova and Dominato absent for the vote)
1. TEXT AMENDMENT: Miscellaneous and Housekeeping Amendments – Zoning and
Development By-law, Sign By-law and Rental Housing Stock Official Development
Plan By-law
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To make miscellaneous amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law,
the Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan, and the Sign By-law in
order to improve clarity, update terminology or address inadvertent errors or
omissions and to better streamline the development review process.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Council also had before it a memorandum dated October 22, 2019, from the General Manager
of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, which provided information in response to
questions regarding equity co-ops.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the
speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:10 pm.

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 22, 2019 3
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law, generally as set out in Appendix A of the Policy Report, dated
September 17, 2019, entitled “Miscellaneous and Housekeeping Amendments -
Zoning and Development By-law, Sign By-law and Rental Housing Stock Official
Development Plan By-law”, to:
(i) amend the definition of Rental Housing Unit in Section 2 to exclude equity
co-op units and to clarify requirements for exclusion of stratified buildings;
(ii) amend Section 4.17.43 (e) of the RS-6 and the RS-7 District Schedule to
add periods that were inadvertently omitted;
(iii) amend Section 2.2.1.A of the RT-5 and RT-5N Districts Schedule to
correct an error in numbering; and
(iv) amend Section 2.2.2 of the C-5, C-5A and C-6 Districts Schedule to
delete a section that is no longer in use.
B. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Sign By-law, generally as
set out in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated September 17, 2019, entitled
“Miscellaneous and Housekeeping Amendments - Zoning and Development
By-law, Sign By-law and Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan
By-law”, to:
(i) amend Section 1.3 to delete duplication of a definition;
(ii) amend Section 12.20 to correct an incorrect building corner reference; and
(iii) amend Sections 9.3 10.3, 11.3, 12.3, 13.3 and 14.3 to align awning sign
regulations with the Vancouver Building By-law.
C. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Rental Housing Stock
Official Development By-law, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Policy
Report dated September 17, 2019, entitled “Miscellaneous and Housekeeping
Amendments - Zoning and Development By-law, Sign By-law and Rental
Housing Stock Official Development Plan By-law”, to:
(i) amend the definition in Section 1.1 to exclude equity co-op units and to
clarify requirements for exclusion of strata-titled buildings.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05016)

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 22, 2019 4
2. TEXT AMENDMENT: 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue
An application by General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend CD-1 (738) for 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th
Avenue to correct the site area in the by-law. The amendment would achieve
the intent of the initial rezoning approval.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
No correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the close of the
speakers list and receipt of public comments.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application and none were present.
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:13 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council approve the application to amend CD-1 (Comprehensive Development)
District (738) By-law No. 12537 for 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th
Avenue [PID: 030-882-621, Lot A Block 16 District Lot 195 Group 1 New Westminster
District Plan EPP86002] to correct the site area, generally in accordance with
Appendix A of the Policy Report dated September 17, 2019, entitled “CD-1 Text
Amendment: 3560-3570 Hull Street and 2070-2090 East 20th Avenue”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05017)
(Councillors De Genova and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
3. REZONING: 1002 Station Street and 250-310 Prior Street
(New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus)
An application by IBI Group Inc. on behalf of Providence Health Care Society was considered
as follows:

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 22, 2019 5
Summary: To rezone 1002 Station Street and 250-310 Prior Street from 1-3 (Industrial)
and I-2 (Industrial) Districts to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to
allow for a New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health Campus including institutional,
office, research, hotel, retail-service, and Indigenous cultural uses, along with
limited rental housing for health care workers. The proposal includes a new
public plaza and two child care facilities. Proposed building heights generally
range from 24 to 61 metres. Total floor area proposed is 312,074 square
metres.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation of the Public Hearing
agenda.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to Public Hearing and prior to the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 2 pieces of correspondence in support; and
• 153 pieces of correspondence and one petition with 700 signatures in opposition.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability reviewed the application and, along with
staff from Engineering Services responded to questions.
Applicant Comments
Dr. Jeff Pike, Physician Director, Clinical Planning, Providence Health Care; Tony Gill, Architect,
IBI Group; and Angie Woo, Facilities Management, Fraser Health, provided an overview of the
application and, along with other members of the applicant team, responded to questions.
Speakers
The Mayor called for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Tamara Komuniecki
• Neil Fowler
• Paul Hollands
• Dr. Don Sin
• Scott Wilson
• Jeff Vopni
• Alisha Masongsong, Acting Director, Exchange Inner City

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 22, 2019 6
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
• Patricia Kendall
• Laura-Leah Shaw
• Lana Simon
• Kingston Walters
• Fely Gotia-Walters
• Larry Benge
• Nathan Davidowicz
* * * * *
At 9:55 pm, during the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the meeting be extended to complete the business.
LOST HAVING NOT
RECEIVED UNANIMOUS CONSENT
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
* * * * *
Subsequently, at 9:59 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the meeting be extended to complete hearing from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:04 pm.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council refer closing comments, discussion and decision on Item 3. REZONING:
1002 Station Street and 250-310 Prior Street (New St. Paul’s Hospital and Health
Campus), to the Regular Council meeting on November 5, 2019, as Unfinished
Business.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, October 22, 2019 7
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:07 pm.
* * * * *