REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 22, 2019
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
October 22, 2019, at 9:32 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh*
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato*
Councillor Pete Fry*
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson*
Councillor Michael Wiebe*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to
working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s staff who work
hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
* * * * *
Due to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on October 23, 2019,
starting at 2 pm, it was
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the speakers for the two items on October 23, 2019, Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities agenda entitled “Establishing an Independent Auditor
General Office for the City of Vancouver” and “A Collaborative and New Approach to
Oppenheimer Park and Other Public Spaces”, be heard starting at 6 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed
by the city;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – October 1, 2019
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of October 1, 2019, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
2. Public Hearing – October 1, 2019
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of October 1, 2019, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 3
3. Regular Council (City Finance and Services) – October 2, 2019
The Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on City Finance
and Services meeting of October 2, 2019, will be adopted at the Regular Council meeting on
November 5, 2019.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council adopt Communications 1 to 3, and Administrative Reports 1 to 5, on
consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Wiebe absent for the vote)
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Housing Infrastructure Grant Framework Update
September 10, 2019
Sandra Singh, General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community Services and Joyce Rautenberg,
Planner, Homelessness Services and Affordable Housing, provided an overview on the Housing
Infrastructure Grant Framework Update report which proposes the establishment of the
2019-2022 Community Housing Incentive Program to increase the City’s grant contribution
towards non-profit and co-op housing projects offering deeper levels of affordability.
Ms. Rautenberg, Grace Cheng, Director, Long-term Financial Strategy & Planning, Abi Bond,
Managing Director, Homelessness Services and Affordable Housing, and Dan Garrison,
Assistant Director, Housing Policy and Regulation, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council approve the establishment of a $25 million 2019-2022 Community
Housing Incentive Program, as described in the Administrative Report dated
September 10, 2019, entitled “Housing Infrastructure Grant Framework Update”, to
support the development and deepen the affordability of social and co-op housing
projects led by non-profit housing providers.
Source of funding to be:
• $8 million from the approved multi-year capital budget for Social Housing
Infrastructure Grants;
• $17 million from Empty Homes Tax revenue.
carried

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 4
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added at the end of the motion:
FURTHER THAT these funds be used to increase the number of shelter rate
units so we can start reducing homelessness.
withdrawn
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
THAT the words “a portion of” be inserted after “FURTHER THAT”;
FURTHER THAT the word “used” be struck and the word “prioritized” be inserted, to
read as follows:
FURTHER THAT a portion of these funds be prioritized to increase the number
of shelter rate units so we can start reducing homelessness.
not put
Councillor De Genova rose on a point of order, enquiring whether the amendments were in
order as they seemed redundant as this work is already underway.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 10:48 am and reconvened at 10:50 am.
* * * * *
Upon reconvening, the Mayor advised he was ruling the amendment in order as it substantially
changes the current policy. The Mayor advised he was ruling the amendment to the amendment
was out of order as it violated Procedure By-law section 4.3(f) which states a motion is out of
order if it is frivolous as this work is currently underway.
* * * * *
WITHDRAWAL MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT, under section 9.4 of the Procedure By-law, the amendment motion be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04990)
(Councillors Bligh and Dominato absent for the vote)
* * * * *
With the amendment having been withdrawn and the amendment to the amendment not being
put, the motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 4989).

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 5
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. Adopt Report of the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services Meeting of
October 2, 2019
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Wednesday, October 2, 2019
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its item of business included:
7. Improving Transportation Safety Around Vancouver Schools
8. Back to Basics: Prioritizing Public Realm Maintenance and Cleanliness in Vancouver
10. Expediting an Elementary School for the Olympic Village Community – the City’s Role
Items 7, 8 and 10
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting of October 2, 2019, as contained in items 7, 8 and 10, be
approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05015)
2. Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and Proposed Guiding Principles
September 25, 2019
Gil Kelley, General Manager, Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability and John Grottenberg,
Lead Planner, Broadway Plan, provided an overview on the Broadway Plan – Phase 1
Engagement and Proposed Guiding Principles report which is a comprehensive plan focusing
on opportunities to integrate new housing, job space and amenities in the district
neighbourhoods around the new Broadway Subway.
Mr. Grottenberg, and Chris Robertson, Assistant Director, City-Wide & Regional Planning,
responded to questions.
* * * * *
At 11:30 am, during questions to staff, it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council continue questions to staff after hearing from speakers on Unfinished
Business Item 2.
CARRIED
(Councillor Hardwick opposed)
(Councillor Swanson absent for the vote)
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 6
Council heard from one speaker in support and two speakers in opposition to the report
recommendations.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 12 pm and reconvened at 3:30 pm.
* * * * *
Mr. Grottenberg, Holly Sovdi, Planner, Special Projects, and Mr. Kelley, responded to additional
questions.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
A. THAT Council receive for information, the Broadway Plan: Phase 1 Engagement
Summary Report, generally as attached in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
September 25, 2019, entitled “Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and
Proposed Guiding Principles”.
B. THAT Council endorse the proposed Broadway Plan Guiding Principles,
generally as attached in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated September 25,
2019, entitled “Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and Proposed Guiding
Principles”, to provide guidance for the creation of the draft Broadway Plan
through continued extensive community engagement with the additional principle
of respecting recent neighbourhood plans, such as the Mt. Pleasant Local Area
Plan.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the following be added as C:
C. THAT in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated September 25, 2019,
entitled “Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and Proposed Guiding
Principles”, paragraph 4 of the Proposed Broadway Plan Guiding
Principles entitled “Support affordable Diverse, Equitable and Inclusive
Complete Neighbourhoods” be struck and replaced with the following:
“Leveraging the investment in the Broadway Subway, new housing
opportunities (particularly purpose built market and below-market rental
and social and supportive housing) close to transit should be expanded
for a diversity of household types, incomes, and backgrounds,
by allocating at least 50% of DCE/CAC funds (or housing units in lieu of
cash) for permanently affordable non market housing pegged to
average incomes and below while retaining and reinvesting in existing
older rental housing and ensuring that current residents can remain in the

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 7
neighbourhood at their current rents. Neighbourhoods should be liveable
and meet the needs of all ages, incomes and abilities and include
amenities, jobs, shops, services, and community facilities and services
(e.g. childcare and neighbourhood houses), as well as opportunities for
arts and cultural activities. Residents should live within an easy walk, or
roll of their daily needs.”
not put
Councillor De Genova rose to a point of order to clarify whether this motion was in order with
regards to Community Amenity Contributions.
The Mayor advised this amendment was out of order as it violates Procedure By-law section
4.3(a) which states a motion is out of order if it is not compatible with the purposes and objects
of the Vancouver Charter including the good rule and government of the City.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
THAT B be struck and the following be inserted:
B. THAT Council direct staff to plan Broadway area land use through the
City-Wide Plan including extensive neighbourhood-based community
engagement respecting recent neighbourhood plans, such as the
Mt. Pleasant Local Area Plan, and including the area shown as the
Broadway Plan Study Area together with the area west of Vine.
LOST (Vote No. 05002)
(Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Carr, De Genova, Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Swanson, Wiebe and
the Mayor opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added as C:
C. THAT in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated September 25, 2019,
entitled “Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and Proposed Guiding
Principles”, paragraph 4 of the Proposed Broadway Plan Guiding
Principles entitled “Support affordable Diverse, Equitable and Inclusive
Complete Neighbourhoods” be struck and replaced with the following:
“Leveraging the investment in the Broadway Subway, new housing
opportunities (particularly purpose built market and below-market rental
and social and supportive housing) close to transit should be expanded
for a diversity of household types, incomes, and backgrounds, while
retaining and reinvesting in existing older rental housing and ensuring that
current renters can remain in the neighbourhood at their current rents.
Neighbourhoods should be liveable and meet the needs of all ages,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 8
incomes and abilities and include amenities, jobs, shops, services, and
community facilities and services (e.g. childcare and neighbourhood
houses), as well as opportunities for arts and cultural activities. Residents
should live within an easy walk, or roll of their daily needs.”
amended
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED BY Councillor Carr
THAT the words at the end of the first sentence, “ensuring that current renters can
remain in the neighbourhood at their current rents” be struck and the words “with the
goal that renters can remain in the neighbourhood at affordable rates” be inserted, and
read as follows:
“Leveraging the investment in the Broadway Subway, new housing opportunities
(particularly purpose built market and below-market rental and social and
supportive housing) close to transit should be expanded for a diversity of
household types, incomes, and backgrounds, while retaining and reinvesting in
existing older rental housing and with the goal that renters can remain in the
neighbourhood at affordable rates. Neighbourhoods should be liveable and meet
the needs of all ages, incomes and abilities and include amenities, jobs, shops,
services, and community facilities and services (e. g. childcare and
neighbourhood houses), as well as opportunities for arts and cultural activities.
Residents should live within an easy walk, or roll of their daily needs.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05003)
(Councillor Fry absent for the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried unanimously, the amendment was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05004).
Following the votes on the amendment, Council agreed to separate the vote on the components
of the motion as amended, and the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote Nos. 05005, 05006 and 05007) with Councillor Hardwick opposed to B and
Councillor Hardwick abstained from the vote for C.
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council receive for information, the Broadway Plan: Phase 1 Engagement
Summary Report, generally as attached in Appendix A of the Policy Report dated
September 25, 2019, entitled “Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and
Proposed Guiding Principles”.
B. THAT Council endorse the proposed Broadway Plan Guiding Principles,
generally as attached in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated September 25,
2019, entitled “Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and Proposed Guiding
Principles”, to provide guidance for the creation of the draft Broadway Plan

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 9
through continued extensive community engagement with the additional principle
of respecting recent neighbhourhood plans, such as the Mt. Pleasant Local Area
Plan.
C. THAT in Appendix B of the Policy Report dated September 25, 2019, entitled
“Broadway Plan – Phase 1 Engagement and Proposed Guiding Principles”,
paragraph 4 of the Proposed Broadway Plan Guiding Principles entitled “Support
affordable Diverse, Equitable and Inclusive Complete Neighbourhoods” be struck
and replaced with the following:
“Leveraging the investment in the Broadway Subway, new housing
opportunities (particularly purpose built market and below-market rental
and social and supportive housing) close to transit should be expanded
for a diversity of household types, incomes, and backgrounds, while
retaining and reinvesting in existing older rental housing and with the goal
that renters can remain in the neighbourhood at affordable rates.
Neighbourhoods should be liveable and meet the needs of all ages,
incomes and abilities and include amenities, jobs, shops, services, and
community facilities and services (e. g. childcare and neighbourhood
houses), as well as opportunities for arts and cultural activities. Residents
should live within an easy walk, or roll of their daily needs.”
COMMUNICATIONS
1. Standing Committee Chairs and Vice-Chairs, and Nomination Sub-Committee
November 1, 2019, to December 31, 2020
THAT the following be appointed Standing Committee Chairs and Vice-Chairs for the
term November 1, 2019, to December 31, 2020:
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
Councillor De Genova (Chair)
Councillor Fry (Vice-Chair)
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Councillor Carr (Chair)
Councillor Kirby-Yung (Vice-Chair)
FURTHER THAT Council approve a Nomination Sub-Committee for the purpose of
recommending nominees to Advisory Bodies, with the following members, for the term
November 1, 2019, to December 31, 2020:
Councillor Boyle (Chair)
Councillor Bligh
Councillor Wiebe
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04991)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 10
2. Appointment of Council Representatives to Regional Bodies
THAT Council appoint Councillor Fry to the Union of British Columbia Municipalities
Executive for the term November 1, 2019, to December 31, 2020.
FURTHER THAT Council nominate Councillor Carr as the City of Vancouver
representative to the Lower Mainland Local Government Association for the term
November 1, 2019, to December 31, 2020.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04992)
3. Appointment of Council Representatives to Boards, Statutory Committees and
Non-Profit Societies
THAT Council approve the following appointments for the term November 1, 2019, to
December 31, 2020:
Vancouver Public Library Board
Councillor Boyle
Public Art Committee
Councillor Kirby-Yung
Vancouver City Planning Commission
Councillor Fry
Vancouver Civic Theatres Board
Councillor Dominato
Vancouver Heritage Commission
Councillor Hardwick
Vancouver Heritage Foundation Board
Councillor Hardwick
Joint Council on Childcare
Councillor Swanson
City of Vancouver Public Housing Corporation
Mayor Stewart
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Carr
Councillor Boyle
Councillor Swanson
Vancouver Civic Development Corporation
Mayor Stewart
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Hardwick

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 11
Pacific National Exhibition (PNE) Board (Chair)
Councillor Dominato
Parking Corporation of Vancouver (EasyPark)
Councillor Wiebe
Vancouver Art Gallery
Mayor Stewart
Councillor Kirby-Yung
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04994)
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. Business Licence/Chauffeur's Permit Hearing Panels - January to July 2020
September 20, 2019
THAT Council delegate the holding of hearings under Section 275 or 278, or appeals
under Sections 277 of the Vancouver Charter or under Section 36(7) of the Motor
Vehicle Act, for those hearing dates designated by Council to a panel of three Council
Members as follows:
January 28 – 9:30 am
Councillor Carr – Chair
Councillor Boyle
Councillor Kirby-Yung
Councillor De Genova – Alternate
January 29 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Wiebe – Chair
Councillor Hardwick
Councillor Swanson
Councillor Dominato – Alternate
February 18 – 9:30 am
Councillor De Genova – Chair
Councillor Bligh
Councillor Dominato
Councillor Boyle – Alternate
February 19– 6:00 pm
Councillor Fry – Chair
Councillor Carr
Councillor Kirby-Yung
Councillor Hardwick – Alternate

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 12
March 3 – 9:30 am
Councillor Boyle – Chair
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Wiebe
Councillor Swanson – Alternate
March 4 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Dominato – Chair
Councillor Fry
Councillor Kirby-Yung
Councillor Carr – Alternate
April 7 – 9:30 am
Councillor Hardwick – Chair
Councillor Bligh
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Wiebe – Alternate
April 8 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Bligh – Chair
Councillor Boyle
Councillor Swanson
Councillor Fry – Alternate
May 19 – 9:30 am
Councillor Hardwick – Chair
Councillor Dominato
Councillor Wiebe
Councillor Kirby-Yung – Alternate
May 20 – 6:00 pm
Councillor De Genova – Chair
Councillor Carr
Councillor Swanson
Councillor Bligh – Alternate
Jun 16 – 9:30 am
Councillor Carr – Chair
Councillor Fry
Councillor Hardwick
Councillor Dominato – Alternate

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 13
Jun 17 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Boyle – Chair
Councillor Kirby-Yung
Councillor Wiebe
Councillor De Genova – Alternate
Jul 9 – 9:30 am
Councillor Fry – Chair
Councillor Bligh
Councillor Swanson
Councillor Carr – Alternate
Jul 15 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Wiebe – Chair
Councillor Dominato
Councillor Hardwick
Councillor Boyle – Alternate
Should any of the above members of Council be unable to attend the hearings, the
hearings and the power to make a Council decision in relation to those hearings will be
delegated to the remaining two Councillors and alternate Councillor.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04995)
2. Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grant – Fall 2019 Intake
September 26, 2019
A. THAT Council approves fourteen (14) new Vancouver Community Sport Hosting
Grants totaling $68,500 as outlined in the body of the Administrative Report
dated September 26, 2019, entitled “Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grant
– Fall 2019 Intake”, to each organization listed in Table 1 of the same report
under the column entitled “Organization” and for the amount set out beside their
name in the column entitled “Grant Recommended”; source of funding is the
2019 Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grant Program Budget.
B. THAT the grant be subject to each grant recipient agreeing to the terms and
conditions of the community sport hosting grant program as generally outlined in
the Administrative Report dated September 26, 2019, entitled “Vancouver
Community Sport Hosting Grant – Fall 2019 Intake”, and otherwise satisfactory to
the Senior Manager, Sport Hosting and the City Solicitor.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of the A and B
above unless and until the grant agreement letter is executed and delivered by
the grant recipient.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 14
D. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, the organizations
listed in Table 1 of the Administrative Report dated September 26, 2019, entitled
“Vancouver Community Sport Hosting Grant – Fall 2019 Intake”, which are not
otherwise a registered charity with Canada Revenue Agency are deemed by
Council to be an organization contributing to the culture, beautification, health, or
welfare of the City.
E. THAT Council approve reserving the remaining balance from the 2019 Vancouver
Community Sport Hosting Grant budget and to be considered as part of a
proposed budget recommendation in the 2020 Operating Budget deliberations of
Council for a proposed Tenth Year Anniversary of the 2010 Olympic and
Paralympic Winter Games.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 04996)
3. Appointment of External Auditor for 2020
September 10, 2019
A. THAT the accounting firm of KPMG LLP (KPMG) be appointed as the City’s
External Auditor for the fiscal year 2020.
B. THAT the audit fee be set at $105,800 (exclusive of applicable taxes). Funding is
included in the 2020 operating budget.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04997)
4. Mountain View Cemetery By-Law Amendments
July 31, 2019
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Mountain View
Cemetery By-Law No. 8719 as set out in the Administrative Report dated
July 31, 2019, entitled “Mountain View Cemetery By-law Amendments”.
B. THAT Council appoint the following staff to the Cemetery Committee: Cemetery
Manager, Managing Director – Non-Market Housing and Social Operations,
General Manager – Arts Culture and Community Services (ACCS) and the
Manager Financial Planning & Analysis (assigned to ACCS), effective
January 1, 2020.
C. THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for enactment
the necessary amendments to the Mountain View Cemetery By-law No. 8719, to
be effective January 1, 2020.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04998)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 15
5. Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and Non-Profit Capacity-Building, Food
Security and Social Innovation
September 24, 2019
A. THAT Council approve six Hastings Legacy Fund grants, totalling $120,000,
including recommended conditions on the grants, to the Agencies listed in
Column 1 of Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated September 24, 2019,
entitled “Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and Non-Profit
Capacity-Building, Food Security and Social Innovation”, in the amounts
recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix A of the same report.
Source of funding is the Hastings Social Responsibility Reserve.
B. THAT Council approve six Organizational Capacity Building Grants, totalling
$145,656, including recommended conditions on the grants, to the Agencies
listed in Column 1 of Appendix B of the Administrative Report dated
September 24, 2019, entitled “Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and
Non-Profit Capacity-Building, Food Security and Social Innovation”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix B of the same
report. Source of funding is the 2019 Social Policy Grants Operating budget.
C. THAT Council approve seven Social Policy Capital grants, totalling $94,844,
including recommended conditions on the grants, to the Agencies listed in
Column 1 of Appendix C of the Administrative Report dated September 24, 2019,
entitled “Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and Non-Profit
Capacity-Building, Food Security and Social Innovation”, in the amounts
recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix C in the same report.
Source of funding is the 2019 Social Policy Small Capital Grant budget.
D. THAT Council approve two Childcare Program Development Grants totalling
$37,000 and three Childcare Research, Policy Development and Innovation
Grants totalling $110,000, including recommended conditions on the grants, to
the Agencies listed in Column 1 of Appendix D of the Administrative Report dated
September 24, 2019, entitled “Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and
Non-Profit Capacity-Building, Food Security and Social Innovation”, in the
amounts recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix D of the same
report. Sources of funding are: the 2019 Social Policy Grants Operating budget –
Childcare ($103,940); and the 2019 Social Policy Grants Operating budget
($43,060).
E. THAT Council approve eight Social Innovation Project grants, totalling $253,400,
including recommended conditions on the grants, to the Agencies listed in
Column 1 of Appendix E of the Administrative Report dated September 24, 2019,
entitled “Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and Non-Profit
Capacity-Building, Food Security and Social Innovation”, in the amounts
recommended for each Agency in Column 2 of Appendix E of the same report.
Source of funding is the 2019 Social Policy Grants Operating budget.
F. THAT Council approve one grant of up to $81,600 to the Strathcona Community
Centre Association for their student community breakfast program, as described
in Appendix F of the Administrative Report dated September 24, 2019, entitled
“Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and Non-Profit Capacity-Building, Food
Security and Social Innovation”. Source of funding is the 2019 Social Policy
Grants Operating Budget.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 16
G. THAT Council approve the reallocation of $5,000 of a $50,000 Social Innovation
Project (SIP) grant originally approved in 2017 (RTS 11798), to support the eight
SIP grants recommended in this report. Details for the reallocation are contained
in Table 1Error! Reference source not found. of the Administrative Report
dated September 24, 2019, entitled “Social Policy Grants for Neighbourhood and
Non-Profit Capacity-Building, Food Security and Social Innovation”.
H. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems
any organization that is to receive a grant pursuant to the above
recommendations and is listed in Appendices A to F, or Table 1 of the
Administrative Report dated September 24, 2019, entitled “Social Policy Grants
for Neighbourhood and Non-Profit Capacity-Building, Food Security and Social
Innovation”, which is not a registered charity with Canada Revenue Agency, to be
an organization contributing to the health or welfare of the City.
I. THAT Council authorize the General Manager, Arts, Culture and Community
Services to negotiate and execute agreements to disperse the grants described
in A to G above on the terms and conditions set out herein or such other terms
and conditions as are satisfactory to the General Manager, Arts, Culture and
Community Services and the Director of Legal Services.
J. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A through G above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A to G
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 04999)
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the meeting be extended to 5:30 pm in order to complete the business on the
agenda.
CARRIED
(Councillors Hardwick and Swanson opposed)
* * * * *
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 7
inclusive, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 17
1. A By-law to exempt from taxation certain lands and improvements pursuant to section
396 of the Vancouver Charter (By-law No. 12562)
2. A By-law to amend Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066 Regarding Housekeeping
Amendments (By-law No. 12563)
3. A By-law to amend Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 Regarding Housekeeping
Amendments (By-law No. 12564)
4. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 re: 5110 Cambie Street
(By-law No. 12565)
5. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 re: 199-133 West 41st Avenue (By-law
No. 12566)
6. A By-law to amend Subdivision By-law No. 5208 re: 3560-3570 Hull Street and
2070-2090 East 20th Avenue (By-law No. 12567)
7. A By-law to Contract a Debt by the Issue and Sale of 3.70% Sinking Fund Debentures in
the Aggregate Principal Amount of $100.000.000 for Objects Set Out in Schedule “B”
(By-law No. 12561)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development: CD-1 – 5118 Cambie Street
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 5110 Cambie Street
(5118 Cambie Street being the application address) be approved generally as illustrated
in the Development Application Number DP-2018-00269, prepared by Billard
Architecture Inc., and stamped “Received, Development Services”, on March 4, 2019,
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design
changes which would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or
adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Approval of Form of Development – 1261 Hornby Street
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1261 Hornby Street
(1277 Hornby St is the project address) be approved generally as illustrated in the
Development Application Number DP-2018-00485, prepared by Jeff Christianson of IBI

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 18
Group, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on
December 4, 2018, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and
approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the development
character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
B. Motions on Notice
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT under section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law, Council suspend rule 10.6 of the
Procedure By-law to allow members two minutes to introduce motions and one minute to
ask questions of the mover.
reconsidered
* * * * *
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
A. THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a leave of absence for personal reasons
from meetings during the hours of 4:30 pm onwards on Wednesday,
November 6, 2019.
B. THAT Councillor Carr be granted a leave of absence for personal reasons from
meetings during the hours of 6 and 8:30 pm, on Tuesday, November 5, 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05000)
* * * * *
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT under Section 9.8 of the Procedure By-law, Council reconsider the vote on a
motion at the same meeting, and reconsider the vote on the following:
THAT under section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law, Council suspend rule 10.6 of
the Procedure By-law to allow members two minutes to introduce motions and
one minute to ask questions of the mover.
CARRIED
(Councillor Kirby-Yung opposed)
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 19
2. Increasing Affordable Housing Options through Character House Incentives in
RS Zones
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
WHEREAS
1. There are 60,000 RS-zoned lots across the city that can help to address
the city’s housing and affordability crisis, and accommodate growth in
part through character house retention options and the adaptive reuse of
character homes, while also supporting the City’s climate change
objectives and Greenest City goals related to waste reduction;
2. Demolition of character housing in Vancouver is a major contributor to
our city’s affordable housing crisis, whereby properties are redeveloped
and liveable homes replaced with homes typically built for a significantly
more expensive luxury housing market, the frequent result of which is the
elimination of affordable secondary suites and the displacement of
renters;
3. The City of Vancouver previously undertook a multi-year Character
House Zoning Review, with extensive public consultation, in order to curb
the high number of character and heritage house demolitions that take
place every year in the city;
4. Many of the publically supported options identified in the City’s multi-year
Character House Zoning Review have never been implemented and the
demolition of sustainably-built, enduring housing stock continues virtually
unabated;
5. Making character house retention tools available can help to create the
range of affordable housing choices needed in our city and add definition
and vibrancy to neighbourhoods while retaining neighbourhood character
– for example, conditional zones such as RT-7 and RT-8 in Kitsilano
have led to some of our city’s most vibrant, family-friendly
neighbourhoods and hitherto resulted in few demolitions;
6. Many houses in the city have been converted to have two secondary
suites, with three rental suites in total (i.e., top floor, main floor, and
basement), although one of these units is usually unauthorized unless
changes can be made to allow all three units through the Secondary
Suite Program provides alternatives to the Building By-law to make them
legal and safe, for affordable rentals and owners’ mortgage helpers;
7. The City’s current Secondary Suite Program already allows relaxations to
the Building Bylaws and Zoning and Development By-laws, such as
waiving sprinkler requirements, allowing lower ceiling heights, requiring
only one exit, removal of interior stairs, etc., for one secondary suite; that
could be amended to allow for two secondary suites;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 20
8. The Character House Zoning Review included years of consultation, and
if character and heritage houses are to be meaningfully retained and
adaptively reused as intended by the review and City policy, further
changes are required to the City’s RS zoning, By-laws, and Secondary
Suite Program, otherwise an increasing amount of our city’s heritage and
character house stock will be lost along with the opportunities they
represent for creating affordable rental housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct Staff to report back to Council, on a priority basis in
Q1 of 2020, to further incentivize the retention of character houses as a
means to facilitate the rapid creation of a diverse supply of affordable
rental housing as outlined in Appendix A below, including the following:
a) Adding conditional zoning mechanisms, similar to Kitsilano RT-7
and RT-8 zones, for all RS zones in the city, with an outright 0.5
FSR and conditionally increased to full FSR in two distinct
housing approval streams, including one fast track stream that
offers enhanced incentives and rapid approval for character
house renovation/adaptation/retention, and a separate approval
stream for non-character houses with new construction;
b) As a further option for character house retention, allow two
secondary suites through the Secondary Suite Program provides
alternatives to the Building By-law to make them legal and safe,
for affordable rentals and owners’ mortgage helpers, with any
required related changes to the Vancouver Building Bylaw, the
Secondary Suite Program, and other bylaws and policies;
c) Provide strategic options, exemptions, and changes to the 2019
Vancouver Building By-law, and other City policies and
guidelines, to allow greater flexibility for character and heritage
house retention, for example, by exploring alternative options to
fire sprinkler requirements for a character house with up to one
secondary suite;
d) Explore other options as incentives for character house retention
as outlined in Appendix A below, including potential tax incentives
and local area heritage density transfers for Heritage A listed
properties.
B. THAT increased resources be allocated in the City’s 2020 Budget,
preferably through a reassignment of staff resources, to support the
actions under this motion and an enhanced recently established
Renovation Centre, specifically specialized staff and new processes that
would significantly speed up and simplify the approval process for
character and heritage house renovations and the implementation of
retention incentive programs.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 21
C. THAT Council direct Staff to report back on character house demolition
rates one year after the implementation of any and all of the enhanced
character house retention policy measures as outlined above.
* * * * *
APPENDIX A – Enhanced Character and Heritage House Retention Strategies and
Incentives
The following are clarifications regarding the above resolutions and Council directions to
staff:
● Adding conditional zoning mechanisms, similar to Kitsilano RT-7 & RT-8 zones,
with a low outright floor space ratio of 0.50 floor space ratio (FSR) in all
RS zones, (except for RS-3 & RS-3A) where further increases in density, and
development for a laneway house, secondary suite or duplex, are subject to two
distinct approval streams, with one stream which would offer enhanced
incentives for character house retention and a second stream for non-character
house lots intended for full demolition followed by new construction (Note: RS-3
and RS-3A would have an equivalent but different low outright calculation
method based on an adjustment to their current FSR formula).
1. STREAM ONE: To increase conditional options beyond current
incentives to retain character houses (incentives which already include:
0.75 FSR + 0.16 Laneway House; 0.75 FSR Multiple Conversion
Dwelling, “MCD”; 0.85 FSR with Infill; 0.85 FSR MCD with Infill), by
providing an additional incentive to allow two secondary suites (for rental
only, not for strata MCD) in the main house, with conversion under the
Secondary Suite Program to ensure acceptable safety and liveability
standards, and any related changes to the Secondary Suite Program and
Vancouver Building By-law that may be required to allow this;
2. STREAM TWO: Allowing density above outright 0.50 FSR for non-
character house lots, to the full conditional 0.70 FSR (along with
development options as per current zoning) provided that specific design
guidelines are followed, and that at least one secondary suite is provided,
or – on lots with over 49 ft. frontage – that a duplex is provided in the
main dwelling when the existing house is demolished (except where
duplexes are not currently allowed as in RS-3 & RS-3A zones), with an
option included for the duplex to have an internal connection if one owner
has both units, or the owners agree in writing, that could be easily closed
off as would be required if the units are to be separated for strata for
future downsizing or for the next owner;
● Incentivizing design guidelines for character house retention and non-character
house lots to ensure quality of design and materials and an appropriate fit into a
neighbourhood character streetscape.
● Expanding the Alternate Requirements under Section 11, while addressing life
safety issues, as may be approved by the Chief Building Official from time to
time, with the aim to provide flexibility and alternatives to current building code

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 22
requirements where a character house or heritage building was built under
building code requirements of an older construction era, including clear
explanatory guidelines for the public.
● Exploring alternative options to fire sprinkler requirements for a character house
with up to one secondary suite, while addressing life safety issues, when the
main house is not being substantially renovated and only minor renovations are
proposed, or when a strata infill is added in rear yard, limit sprinklers on the main
existing house so that sprinklers are only required to protect the side yard means
of egress.
● Exploring alternative options for laneway house sewer services for an existing
character house by allowing appropriate discretion to the Director of Planning
and Chief Building Official in order to retain existing mature trees landscape on a
private property through amendments to the Sewer By-law 8093.
● Exploring alternatives to basements in a character house being counted as a
storey under the Fire Code when the main floor is more than 6 feet above grade,
which many character houses are, especially if it is raised to create a liveable
basement. If a basement is counted as a storey, it causes a typical 2-½ storey
house to be counted as 4 storeys which means Part 3 of the Vancouver Building
By-law (VBBL) (for multifamily construction) would apply and detrimentally so.
● Amending the Secondary Suite Program, and VBBL 2019 update as may be
required, to allow two secondary suites to be converted through the Secondary
Suite Program as an incentive exclusively for character house retention.
● Providing the recently established Renovation Centre with specialized staff,
processes and resources, to be included in the 2020 budget, to improve the
approval of renovations and character/heritage retention incentive programs.
● Seeking potential tax incentives and options in RS zones for the retention of
heritage houses listed on the City of Vancouver heritage register, such as for
property tax waivers as part of a Heritage Revitalization Agreement (HRA), as
allowed in other areas of the city, and/or by requesting that the province waive
the Additional School Tax.
● Exploring local heritage density transfers, as part of a Heritage Revitalization
Agreement (HRA), for exceptional heritage listed "A" properties in RS zones that
are vulnerable to demolition (but where part or all of the increased density could
not be accommodated onsite without ruining the heritage values), with the
density transfer to be landed consistent with a community supported scale and
location and within the same neighbourhood, but not for addition to the Density
Bank.
referred
Mayor Stewart noted requests to speak had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 23
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the motion entitled “Increasing Affordable Housing Options through Character
House Incentives in RS Zones” be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities meeting on October 23, 2019, in order to hear from speakers, after
6 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05008)
3. Extinguishing Consumer Fireworks
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
WHEREAS
1. Fireworks are dangerous explosive items that can burn up to 1000 degrees
Celsius and create loud noises in the range of 150db. Safety guidelines
published by Natural Resources Canada requires a minimum 30m x 30m
(100’ x 100’) clear space be used when setting off fireworks. The typical
Vancouver lot is only 10 m wide;
2. Consumer fireworks are a popular form of fireworks used for recreation, they
include noisemakers, ground spinners, sparklers and aerial fireworks. Display
Fireworks are fireworks designed to be used by professionals;1
3. Each year, Vancouver Police Department calls for service dramatically increase
during the five days leading up to October 31st. In a 2018 memo, Vancouver Fire
and Rescue Services compiled damages and cost over the last 12 years and
found that the average fire loss per year due to the use of consumer fireworks is
$379,000.00;
4. Vancouver is one of the only local cities that allow the sale and use of consumer
fireworks. Nearby cities that have banned fireworks due to excessive property
damage, injuries and costs to the communities include North Vancouver,
Coquitlam, Port Coquitlam, Pitt Meadows, Maple Ridge, Richmond, Delta,
Surrey, Langley, Langley Township, Abbotsford, Mission, Victoria, and Seattle
WA;
5. In 2007 Council approved amendments to the Fire By-law to restrict the purchase
and discharge of fireworks to individuals holding a permit issued by the Fire
Chief. The City of Vancouver fire bylaw currently restricts the sale of fireworks
except between October 25th and October 31st of each calendar year. Permit
holders must be 19 years of age or older and successfully complete the fire
department (on line) education and test regarding handling of fireworks;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 24
6. Fireworks set off in urban areas have demonstrable and significant adverse
effect on wild animals.2 Research studies show that the noise from fireworks
causes a great amount of fear, stress and anxiety in wild animals. Other
documented effects include nesting birds and other small mammal parents
abandoning their nests leaving their defenseless babies behind. The panic can
sometimes cause so much disorientation that wildlife parents cannot locate their
nests and their babies die. Panic and disorientation from fireworks noise has also
resulted in birds flying into windows and buildings, or too far out to sea to escape
the noise;3
7. Fireworks set off in urban areas have demonstrable and significant adverse
effect on many domestic animals. In 2016 a mixed breed dog named Maggie was
killed 4 when spooked by fireworks she ran onto SkyTrain tracks. Each year the
BC SPCA issue warnings to public to protect and calm pets traumatized by
fireworks. Animal shelters typically see an increase in lost animals during
fireworks sessions and Veterinary Associations caution many animals injure
themselves in panicked attempts to escape the blasts;
8. Fireworks have environmental impacts though the release of poisonous
chemicals and airborne particles, including colourants and propellants like
copper, strontium, lithium, barium, aluminum, potassium and percholates.
Research has found that fireworks sourced airborne particulates have been
found to deplete lung defences more than pollution from traffic sources. Spent
fireworks particles and detritus make their wat into our waterways, atmosphere
and environment; 5 6
9. Fireworks can trigger Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder for survivors of gun
violence, war refugees, and veterans; 7 8
10. Fireworks-related injuries disproportionally impact children and youth. In 2017,
eight people died and over 12,000 were injured badly enough to require medical
treatment in the United States, 50% of those casualties were to children and
youth under twenty; 9
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to work with Vancouver Fire
and Rescue Services and the Vancouver Police Department to report back in 2020 on a
plan to ban the retail sale of consumer fireworks to the public by 2021. Considerations
should include:
i. How to address enforcement and compliance with a ban on consumer
fireworks;
ii. Exemptions for how display fireworks can still be used as part of large
public events (Celebration of Light, New Year’s Eve etc.) and
cultural/religious occasions (Diwali etc.);
iii. An authorized Fire permit from the City of Vancouver to ignite, explode,
set off or detonate display fireworks within the guidelines and conditions
of the permit, Vancouver Fire Bylaw, and the Canadian Explosives
Regulations;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 25
iv. Necessary amendments to the Fire By-law in order to facilitate a ban on
consumer fireworks.
* * * * *
1. http://www.nationalfireworks.ca/
2. https://www.forbes.com/sites/grrlscientist/2015/12/31/birds-flee-en-mass-from-new-
years-eve-fireworks/#b9dd8b378505
3. https://www.westsoundwildlife.org/wildlife/Coexisting/CO_Fireworks.html
4. https://bc.ctvnews.ca/dog-spooked-by-fireworks-killed-on-skytrain-tracks-1.3139826
5. http://theconversation.com/our-prettiest-pollutant-just-how-bad-are-fireworks-for-the-
environment-52451
6. https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/es1016284
7. https://www.theguardian.com/society/2018/jul/04/fireworks-ptsd-fourth-of-july-veterans-
shooting-survivors
8. https://www.dw.com/en/germany-prepares-refugees-for-new-year-fireworks-over-
trauma-concerns/a-18949967
9. https://www.nsc.org/home-safety/tools-resources/seasonal-safety/summer/fireworks
referred
Mayor Stewart noted requests to speak had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT the motion entitled “Extinguishing Consumer Fireworks” be referred to the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on October 23, 2019, in
order to hear from speakers, after 6 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05009)
4. Four Pillars Drug Strategy Review and Additional Resources
* * * * *
The motion below contains changes from the original Notice of Motion.
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 26
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. The Four Pillars Drug Strategy was introduced at Vancouver Citiy Council in the
1990s by former City of Vancouver Mayor Philip Owen;
2. In 1998, Council approved “A Program of Strategic Actions for the Downtown
Eastside” which included developing directions for the City to address substance
misuse issues in the Downtown Eastside and the city;
3. Based on policy and research gathered from exploring models in European cities
(Frankfurt, Geneva, Zurich) in the United Kingdom (Liverpool), Australia (Sydney)
and U.S.A. (Portland, Oregon) on April 24, 2001, Council officially adopted a
revised framework and policy recommendations “A Framework for action: A Four
Pillar Approach to Vancouver’s Drug Problems”;
4. The Four Pillars Drug Strategy includes:
• Harm Reduction
• Prevention
• Treatment
• Enforcement
5. Vancouver is world renowned for implementation of the Four Pillars Strategy and
exploring new clinical trials, programs and approaches to address drug policy.
Listed below are examples:
i) InSite opened September 21, 2003, in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside
and is the first supervised injection facility in North America. InSite is
managed by Vancouver Coastal Health and over the years it has proved
to be successful in several ways including reducing overdose fatalities,
reducing the transmission of blood-born infections like HIV and Hepatitis
C, increasing referral and connections with community and health
programs;
ii) The North American Opiate Medication Initiative (NAOMI) Study was
approved by Health Canada and funded by Canadian Institutes of health
research. A Vancouver clinical trial began with enrollment of 192
volunteers in 2005 and enrollment concluded in 2007. The objective of
this clinical trial was to test if heroin-assisted therapy benefits people
suffering from chronic opiate addictions who have not benefited from
other treatments. Clinical Trials were also conducted in Montreal and
Quebec City;
iii) The Study to Assess Longer-term Opioid Medication Effectiveness
(SALOME) enrolled 202 volunteers for a clinical trial study beginning in
2011 with study completion in 2016. SALOME endeavored to compare
two medications- diacetylmorphine (active ingredient in heroin) and
hydromorphone;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 27
6. The City of Vancouver and Mayor and Council over several terms and of different
political affiliations have supported the Four Pillars Drug Strategy, updating
actions in the strategy to address current and emerging community needs;
7. Overdose Prevention Sites and Drug Checking Services have expanded in
Vancouver, providing clients at Insite and individuals using the Overdose
Prevention Society Site and others the ability to test drugs for fentanyl and other
substances. A Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) media release in 2017
announced 4 locations and the Powell Street Getaway, offering a
Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectrometer (FTIR), which can identify multiple
ingredients in drugs;
8. April 14, 2016 the overdose crisis was declared a public health emergency in
British Columbia and in the province over 3,600 people have lost their lives
because of overdose;
9. December 20, 2018, a Special Council meeting was held for “Mayor’s Overdose
Emergency Task Force –Recommendations for Immediate Action on the
Overdose Crisis”. The following language carried in a Council amendment:
THAT Council direct staff to explore how all pillars of the Four Pillars Drug
Strategy have been applied to the overdose crisis since the Provincial
Medical Health Officer declared a public health emergency under the
Public Health Act on April 14, 2016, and report back in Q3 of 2019;
10. In July 2019, Council approved a safe supply statement and recommended
resolution for FCM to “call on the federal government to expand access to safe
supply by proactively supporting all doctors, health authorities, provinces and all
relevant professional colleges, including physicians and surgeons across
Canada, to safely provide regulated opioids or other substances through a free
and federally available Pharmacare program.” In September 2019, a resolution
passed at FCM in support of initiatives to support and fast-track safe supply for
municipalities;
11. Portugal has adopted an innovative model setting their system apart, including
decriminalization of illicit drugs for users found carrying personal supply (for up to
10 days). The system has similar objectives to the Four Pillars Drug Strategy.
Like restorative justice, the “Commission for the Dissuasion of Drug Addiction”
offers a different approach to enforcement. There is also access to a long-term
safe supply for chronic opioid users, who can be connected to ongoing treatment
and community support. The Portugal model is measured by data and success-
including a significant reduction in overdose related deaths, the cost of
incarceration, healthcare and property crime;
12. Although the City of Vancouver has expressed the need for increased treatment
options, access to treatment is limited and waitlists can be ineffective and long
for people facing addiction.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 28
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT, in the interest of moving forward with a comprehensive review of the
ongoing administration of the Four Pillars Drug Strategy, Council direct staff to
increase resources and the capacity of city staff to research drug policy.
FURTHER THAT the City Manager administer and organize staff and resources,
to increase the capacity of Arts, Culture and Community Services to research a
new drug policy to further achieve the goals of the Four Pillars Drug Strategy.
AND FURTHER THAT that this be implemented as soon as possible and no later
than the 2021 City of Vancouver operating budget cycle.
B. THAT Council direct staff to investigate and report back on the possibility of
implementing “new to Vancouver initiatives”, that have proven to be successful in
drug policy strategy approved by Portugal’s Assembly of the Republic.
FURTHER THAT any recommendations that may be brought forward, are in the
spirit of The Four Pillars Drug Strategy and the Healthy City Strategy.
referred
Mayor Stewart noted requests to speak had been received.
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the motion entitled “Four Pillars Drug Strategy Review and Additional Resources”
be referred to the Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on
Wednesday, October 23, 2019, in order to hear from speakers, scheduled to begin at
6 pm, following the previously referred motions.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05010)
NOTICE OF MOTION
1. Safe and Inclusive Streets: Support for Community Crisis Management Through
Understanding and De-Escalation
Councillor Fry submitted a notice of motion on the above-noted matter. The motion may be
placed on the Regular Council meeting agenda of November 5, 2019, as a Motion on Notice.
2. An Opportunity to Participate in a Partnered Campaign Focussed on Responsible
Alcohol Consumption
Councillor Dominato submitted a notice of motion on the above-noted matter. The motion may
be placed on the Regular Council meeting agenda of November 5, 2019, as a Motion on Notice.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 29
3. Partnering for the Benefit of Neighbourhoods Councillors
Councillor Dominato submitted a notice of motion on the above-noted matter. The motion may
be placed on the Regular Council meeting agenda of November 5, 2019, as a Motion on Notice.
4. Increasing Access for Emergency Services: Examining How the City of Vancouver
Can Increase Access to Strata and Rental Multi-Residential Buildings for All
Emergency Services
Councillor De Genova submitted a notice of motion on the above-noted matter. The motion may
be placed on the Regular Council meeting agenda of November 5, 2019, as a Motion on Notice.
5. Taking Steps Toward a National Cost-Shared Universal Healthy School Food
Program
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of motion on the above-noted matter. The motion may be
placed on the Regular Council meeting agenda of November 5, 2019, as a Motion on Notice.
6. Exploring a More Robust Policy Framework Relating to the Sale and Promotion of
Vaping Products
Councillor Bligh submitted a notice of motion on the above-noted matter. The motion may be
placed on the Regular Council meeting agenda of November 5, 2019, as a Motion on Notice.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Requests for Leaves of Absence – Councillor Carr and Fry
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Councillors Carr and Fry be granted leaves of absence for civic business from
meetings during the hours of 2 and 6:30 pm, on October 30, 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05011)
2. Request for Leave of Absence – Councillor Dominato
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Councillor Dominato be granted a leave of absence for civic business from
meetings during the hours of 2 and 6:30 pm, on October 30, 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05012)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, October 22, 2019 30
3. Request for Leaves of Absence – Councillor Kirby-Yung
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a leave of absence for civic business from
meetings all day on October 30, 2019.
FURTHER THAT Councillor Kirby-Yung be granted a leave of absence for personal
reasons from meetings from 5 pm onwards on November 6, 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05013)
4. Request for Leave of Absence – Councillor De Genova
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Councillor De Genova be granted a leave of absence for personal reasons from
meetings between the hours of 5 and 7:30 pm on October 30, 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 05014)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Hardwick
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 5:23 pm.
* * * * *