CHAUFFEUR’S PERMIT APPEAL HEARING MINUTES
JULY 17, 2019
A Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on
Wednesday, July 17, 2019, at 9:39 am in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh, Chair
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tamarra Wong, Meeting Coordinator
Irina Dragnea, Meeting Coordinator
1. Jagatjot Singh Bansal
The Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Panel had before it for consideration an Evidence Brief,
prepared by the City of Vancouver’s Legal Department, which contained the following material
(on file in the City Clerk’s Office) and the evidence of witnesses:
Tab Description
1. Notice of Hearing
2. APPLICATION:
 Chauffeur Permit Application
 Letter from MacLure’s Cabs to VPD Taxi Unit regarding Police Records
Check
 Police Information Check
3. ICBC:
 Driving Record Search for Jagatjot Singh Bansal
 Insurance coverage history and claim experience for Jagatjot Singh
Bansal
4. VIOLATIONS:
 Violation Ticket AH98686664 (November 21, 2017)
 Ticket Offence Hardcopy AJ07679444VT (March 26, 2018)
 Ticket Offence Hardcopy EA00004228EA (July 21, 2018)
5. TAXI UNIT INTERVIEW – March 28, 2019
 Check Sheet from interview with Jagatjot Singh Bansal
 Notes by Constable John Braithwaite

Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 17, 2019 2
6. DECISION:
 Letter from the Chief Constable to Jagatjot Singh Bansal dated March 27,
2019
7. CORRESPONDENCE:
 Letter from Jagatjot Singh Bansal to City of Vancouver dated April 10,
2019
 Letter from Carolyn Bauer in support of Jagatjot Singh Bansal dated April
10, 2019
 Letter from City of Vancouver to Jagatjot Singh Bansal dated April 30,
2019
 Email from Taylor Clarke dated May 10, 2019
8. Relevant sections of the City of Vancouver’s Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066
Iain Dixon, Assistant Director – Regulatory Litigation, Legal Department, was present on behalf
of the City of Vancouver. Jagatjot Singh Bansal was present and represented by Mr. Kevin
Nanne, Gall Legge Grant Zwack LLP.
Mr. Dixon reviewed the legislation relevant to the circumstances of this Hearing and noted that
the City has the authority to regulate Chauffeurs under Section 317(1)(I) of the Vancouver
Charter. Mr. Dixon reviewed applicable provisions of the Vehicles for Hire By-law and the Motor
Vehicle Act.
The cancellation of the Chauffeur’s Permit by the Chief Constable is pursuant to Section 6(6) of
the City of Vancouver’s Vehicles for Hire By-law No. 6066. The Chief Constable has canceled
the Chauffeur’s Permit based on the following, as documented in the Notice of Hearing dated,
June 24, 2019, that was sent to Mr. Bansal by Registered Mail:
 November 21, 2017 – Speeding against municipal sign contrary to Section 146(7) of the
Motor Vehicle Act.
 March 26, 2018 – disobeying traffic sign or signal indicating that a certain vehicle
movement is prohibited, contrary to Section 161 (b) of the Motor Vehicle Act.
 July 21, 2018 – speeding in or outside a municipality, contrary to Section 146 (1) of the
Motor Vehicle Act.
Mr. Dixon noted that after hearing the appeal, Council may uphold or overturn the Chief
Constable’s decision to cancel the Chauffeur’s Permit issued to Jagatjot Singh Bansal. Mr.
Dixon noted the Panel should consider whether the Chief Constable correctly interpreted and
applied the applicable legislation to this particular set of circumstances in determining whether
or not a refusal of the Chauffeur's Permit was appropriate.

Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 17, 2019 3
Mr. Dixon noted Constable John Braithwaite, Vancouver Police Department, was in attendance
as a witness but would not be called upon, as all evidence provided by Constable Braithwaite
was contained within the Evidence Brief. Constable Braithwaite was available to answer
questions.
In opening, Mr. Nanne explained that there may be some confusion on whether or not this
appeal was being treated as a refusal to issue or cancellation. Mr. Nanne provided background
information on Mr. Bansal’s driving record and noted that Mr. Bansal has been a taxi driver for
over thirty years. Mr. Nanne also noted the hardship and impact the cancelled permit would
have on Mr. Bansal’s family as Mr. Bansal would not be eligible to apply for another permit until
November 2019. Mr. Nanne asked the Panel to reconsider the interpretation of the By-law and
to properly balance the public safety concerns that may or may not be relevant to Mr. Bansal’s
infractions and to take into consideration Mr. Bansal’s personal hardship.
The Panel asked questions of Mr. Nanne and Mr. Dixon regarding the appeal process and
asked for clarification between a refusal to issue and a cancellation.
The Panel asked questions of Constable Braithwaite.
The Panel asked further questions of Mr. Dixon and Mr. Nanne regarding the Vehicles for Hire
By-law.
Mr. Dixon and Mr. Nanne waived closing comments.
PANEL MEMBERS DECISION
Councillor Bligh noted that the legal advice received from the City of Vancouver’s Legal
Department is accurate and that the infractions Mr. Bansal received did not leave any room for
discretion. Councillor Bligh also noted that Mr. Bansal could reapply for a permit in November
2019 and that she would be in support of the motion to uphold the decision of the Chief
Constable to cancel the Chauffeur’s Permit.
Councillor Wiebe summarized the difficult decision the Panel had before them and believed that
Mr. Bansal’s three infringements did not sufficiently showcase that he is unfit to act as a
Chauffeur. Councillor Wiebe also mentioned that the Vehicles for Hire By-law is clear on stating
that three or more Motor Vehicle Act offences fail to comply with the By-law.

Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing
Minutes, Wednesday, July 17, 2019 4
Following discussion, it was,
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Panel uphold the decision of the Chief Constable to
cancel a Chauffeur’s Permit issued to Jagatjot Singh Bansal, based on evidence of
persistent infringements of the Motor Vehicle Act within the preceding two years that
indicate he is unfit to act as a Chauffeur.
CARRIED
(Councillor Wiebe opposed)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Chauffeur’s Permit Appeal Hearing Panel adjourned at 10:19 am.
* * * * *