REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 2, 2019
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, April 2, 2019, at
9:30 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson
Councillor Michael Wiebe
ABSENT: Councillor Colleen Hardwick (Medical Leave)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
Paul Mochrie, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Nicole Ludwig, Meeting Coordinator
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land since time immemorial.
PRESENTATION – Captain Steve Letourneau – 35 Year Service Medal
Mayor Stewart presented Captain Steve Letourneau, Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services, with a
35 Year Service Medal and Certificate. Captain Letourneau said a few words, and Fire Chief
Darrell Reid, Vancouver Fire Rescue Services, and Rob Weeks, President Vancouver Firefighters
Union Local 18, thanked Captain Letourneau for his leadership and service over the length of his
career.
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT when Council considers “Motions on Notice” today, Motion on Notice 5 (Review of
SNC-Lavalin Relationship with the City of Vancouver) be dealt with first.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 2
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public, pursuant
to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed by
the city;
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(e) the acquisition, disposition or expropriation of land or improvements, if the Council
considers that disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including communications
necessary for that purpose;
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council (Policy and Strategic Priorities) – February 27, March 5 and 6, 2019
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting of February 27, March 5 and 6, 2019, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Special Council (City-wide Plan Scoping Workshop) – March 9, 2019
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Minutes of the Special Council meeting for the City-wide Plan Scoping
Workshop of March 9, 2019, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 3
3. Regular Council – March 12, 2019
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of March 12, 2019, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
4. Public Hearing – March 12, 2019
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Minutes of the Public Hearing of March 12, 2019, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5. Regular Council (City Finance and Services) – March 13 and 14, 2019
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting following the Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting of March 13 and 14, 2019, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
The Mayor advised a revised Administrative Report 3 had been circulated with language changed
to match the City’s “Diversity of Advisory Bodies Policy”.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council adopt Administrative Reports 1 and 3 to 6 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Housing Vancouver Annual Progress Report and Data Book
Dan Garrison, Assistant Director of Housing Policy and Regulation, and Jessie Singer,
Housing Policy, presented the Housing Vancouver annual progress report and data book,
including an overview of the strategy, progress towards targets, new measures and partnerships
and current implementation actions. They, along with Abi Bond, Managing Director of

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 4
Homelessness Services and Affordable Housing Programs, and Edna Cho, Senior Housing
Planner, responded to questions.
Councillor Carr requested a memo from staff, prior to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities
(FCM) Annual Convention in June, regarding the role Council can play in the lead up to a federal
election in terms of incentives to build rental housing. She suggested the FCM convention could
be an opportunity for members to discuss consolidation of effort around the election.
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. Public Art Programming Partnership at “Offsite"
March 21, 2019
THAT Council authorize Cultural Services to draw annual payments of $160,000 for the
next five years from the Georgia Street (Shangri-La) Public Art Reserve to fund 2019-2023
operations of “Offsite,” a program of temporary artworks at a dedicated public art site on
the 1100 block of West Georgia Street, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director
of Legal Services and the Managing Director of Cultural Services.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04249)
2. 2018 Statement of Financial Information
March 19, 2019
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
A. THAT Council approve the 2018 Statement of Financial Information for filing with
the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing pursuant to the Financial Information
Act.
B. THAT Council receive for information the portion of the 2018 Statement of
Financial Information which represents the report of the City’s auditors on the 2018
financial statements of the City pursuant to Section 231 of the Vancouver Charter.
C. THAT Council receive for consideration the portion of the 2018 Statement of
Financial Information as it pertains to the remuneration and expenses of Council
members pursuant to Section 196A of the Vancouver Charter.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04250)
3. Neighbourhood Energy Expert Panel
March 15, 2019
THAT Council approve the amended Terms of Reference for the Neighbourhood Energy
Expert Panel (referred to in the Administrative Report dated March 15, 2019, entitled
“Neighbourhood Energy Expert Panel” as the “Expert Panel”), to:
i. ensure that Expert Panel membership aligns with Council approved
diversity targets for advisory bodies;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 5
ii. provide clarity on term lengths for Expert Panel member appointments;
iii. increase the number of Expert Panel members from three to four;
iv. provide greater clarity regarding the Expert Panel member appointment
process; and
v. adopt miscellaneous house-keeping amendments to ensure that the
Terms of Reference remain current and are consistent with the City’s
approach for deploying and enabling development of low carbon
neighbourhood energy systems.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04251)
4. Appointment of Screening Officer I and II for Enforcement of the Drinking Water
Conservation By-law
January 24, 2019
A. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for enactment
amendments to the By-law Notice Enforcement By-law generally in accordance
with Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated January 24, 2019, entitled
“Appointment of Screening Officer I and II for Enforcement of the Drinking Water
Conservation By-law”, in order to facilitate the administration of the Drinking Water
Conservation By-law.
B. THAT Council approve the revised Screening Officer Policy set out in Appendix B
of the Administrative Report dated January 24, 2019, entitled “Appointment of
Screening Officer I and II for Enforcement of the Drinking Water Conservation
By-law”, to become effective upon enactment of the by-law referred to in A above.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 04253)
5. Business Licence/Chauffeur's Permit Hearing Panels - June to December 2019
March 12, 2019
THAT Council delegate the holding of hearings under Section 275 or 278, or appeals
under Sections 277 of the Vancouver Charter or under Section 36(7) of the Motor Vehicle
Act, for those hearing dates designated by Council to a panel of three Council Members as
follows, in 2019:
June 18 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Carr - Chair
Councillor Boyle
Councillor Hardwick
Councillor Kirby-Yung – Alternate
June 19 – 9:30 am
Councillor Wiebe – Chair
Councillor Dominato

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 6
Councillor Swanson
Councillor Bligh – Alternate
July 16 – 9:30 am
Councillor Kirby-Yung – Chair
Councillor Fry
Councillor Hardwick
Councillor Boyle – Alternate
July 17 – 9:30 am
Councillor Bligh – Chair
Councillor Swanson
Councillor Wiebe
Councillor De Genova – Alternate
September 17 – 9:30 am
Councillor Hardwick – Chair
Councillor Boyle
Councillor Fry
Councillor Carr – Alternate
September 18 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Dominato – Chair
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Hardwick
Councillor Bligh – Alternate
October 8 – 9:30 am
Councillor Fry – Chair
Councillor Carr
Councillor Wiebe
Councillor Kirby-Yung – Alternate
October 9 – 9:30 am
Councillor Kirby-Yung – Chair
Councillor Dominato
Councillor Fry
Councillor Swanson – Alternate
November 19 – 6:00 pm
Councillor Swanson – Chair
Councillor Bligh
Councillor Hardwick
Councillor Kirby-Yung – Alternate

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 7
November 20 – 9:30 am
Councillor Wiebe – Chair
Councillor Boyle
Councillor De Genova
Councillor Carr – Alternate
Should any of the above members of Council be unable to attend the hearings, the
hearings and the power to make a Council decision in relation to those hearings will be
delegated to the remaining two Councillors and alternate Councillor.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 02454)
6. Annual Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM), Union of British Columbia
Municipalities (UBCM) and Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA)
Membership Fees for 2019 to 2020
March 8, 2019
A. THAT grants to the following organizations for the 2019 to 2020 membership fees
be approved; the source of funds from the 2019 Operating Budget:
(a) Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM) $ 96,608.47
(b) Union of British Columbia Municipalities (UBCM) $ 55,088.10
(c) Lower Mainland Local Government Association (LMLGA) $ 7,100.00*
(* approximate)
B. THAT a grant to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM) be approved in
the amount of $42,800.00 representing an optional contribution to “ Special
Advocacy Fund Contribution”, to support FCM in building tools and resources in
advance of the next Federal election.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 04256)
* * * * *
At 11:55 am it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council recess and reconvene at 3 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
Council recessed at 11:55 am and reconvened at 3:22 pm.
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 8
7. City Sponsorship Policy
March 2, 2019
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
A. THAT Council approve the City Sponsorship Policy attached as Appendix A of the
Administrative Report dated March 2, 2019, entitled “City Sponsorship Policy”.
B. THAT, in order to align with the City Sponsorship Policy, Council approve the
consequential amendments highlighted or set out in:
i. the Procurement Policy attached as Appendix B of the Administrative
Report dated March 2, 2019, entitled “City Sponsorship Policy”; and
ii. the Operating Budget Policy attached as Appendix C of the above-noted
report.
C. THAT, if Council approves Recommendations A and B,
i. The attached City Sponsorship Policy and amendments to the Procurement
Policy and Operating Budget Policy (the “Policies”) are effective
immediately;
ii. The Deputy City Manager provide copies of the Policies to the Park Board,
Police Board, Library Board and the City’s affiliates for consideration;
iii. The City Manager, Director of Finance, and City Solicitor be authorized to
make all such administrative amendments and modifications as are
considered appropriate from time to time to the Policies to reflect changes
in organizational structure or staff titles, to incorporate the policies of the
Library, Police, Park Board and City Affiliates that may be adopted by them
from time to time to better align with the City’s Policies, and any other
elements of the Policies other than the elements which legally delegate
authority reserved to Council from Council to staff.
D. THAT Council direct staff to provide a report back to Council including a list of
participants and the impact of the City Sponsorship Policy in Q2 2020.
amended/referred
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
THAT the following be added as E:
THAT the following be added to Section 6.2 of Appendix A of the Administrative
Report dated March 2, 2019, entitled “City Sponsorship Policy”:
• Fossil fuel corporations
• Pharmaceutical corporations

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 9
So that Section 6.2 would read:
6.2 Any person or party that engages in the following business is ineligible to be a
Sponsor:
a. producing, distributing or selling products and services that may be considered
harmful to the health of the target audience such as gaming, tobacco, liquor or
cannabis unless explicitly authorized by the City Manager, or
b. manufacturing of armaments and weapons, or
c. producing and selling pornography, or illegal sexual services, or
d. any other categories as reasonably determined by the City Manager;
e. Fossil fuel corporations
f. Pharmaceutical corporations
CARRIED (Vote No. 04241)
(Councillors Bligh, De Genova, Dominato and Kirby-Yung opposed)
At 3:56 pm, Councillor De Genova rose on a point of order to enquire if legal advice would be
required before proceeding. The City Manager responded, noting that it is up to Council to choose
the kinds of companies and organizations that the City partners with. He also advised that the
proposed sponsorship policy is in alignment with the existing procurement policy.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be added as F:
THAT the following be added to Section 6.2 of Appendix A of the Administrative
Report dated March 2, 2019, entitled “City Sponsorship Policy”:
• large property owners, developers, organizations, and corporations that stand
to derive financial benefit from rezonings and/or dealing with the City.
amended/referred
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the word “organizations” and the phrase “and/or dealing with the City” be deleted
from the amendment so that the amendment would read:
• large property owners, developers, and corporations that stand to derive
financial benefit from rezonings
So that, Section 6.2 of Appendix A of the Administrative Report dated March 2, 2019,
entitled “City Sponsorship Policy” would read:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 10
6.2 Any person or party that engages in the following business is ineligible to be a
Sponsor:
a. producing, distributing or selling products and services that may be
considered harmful to the health of the target audience such as gaming,
tobacco, liquor or cannabis unless explicitly authorized by the City
Manager, or
b. manufacturing of armaments and weapons, or
c. producing and selling pornography, or illegal sexual services, or
d. any other categories as reasonably determined by the City Manager;
e. Fossil fuel corporations;
f. Pharmaceutical corporations;
g. large property owners, developers, and corporations that stand to derive
financial benefit from rezonings.
CARRIED (Vote No. 04242)
( Councillors Bligh, Dominato, De Genova and Kirby-Yung opposed)
(Councillor Fry abstained from the vote)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the report and pending amendments be referred to staff to provide information on
how the pending amendments will affect the implementation of the proposed sponsorship
policy.
CARRIED (Vote No. 04243)
(Councillors Boyle, Swanson, and Mayor Stewart opposed)
BY-LAWS
Councillors Bligh and De Genova advised they had reviewed the proceedings of the meeting
related to by-laws 2 to 5, and would be voting on the enactments.
Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Fry, Wiebe and Mayor Stewart advised they had reviewed the
proceedings of the meeting related to by-law 8 and would be voting on the enactment.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 11
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1 to 9 inclusive, and authorize
the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 3070 Kingsway (By-law No. 12399)
2. A By-law to amend CD-1 (624) By-law No. 11481 (formerly 3680-3684 East 22nd Avenue)
(By-law No. 12400)
3. A By-law to amend CD-1 (696) By-law No. 12105 (500-650 West 57th Avenue - Pearson
Dogwood) (By-law No. 12401)
4. A By-law to amend CD-1 (531) By-law No. 10482 (103-127 West 2nd Avenue and
1753-1791 Manitoba Street, and 165-195 West 2nd Avenue and 1778 Columbia Street)
(By-law No. 12402)
5. A By-law to amend CD-1 (588) By-law No. 11107 (1229-1289 Hornby Street)
(By-law No. 12403)
6. A By-law to amend Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849 regarding Parking Permits for Long-
Term West End Residents (By-law No. 12404)
7. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 8599 Oak Street (By-law No. 12405)
8. A By-law to amend the Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (8615 Laurel Street) (By-law No. 12406)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
9. A By-law to amend Parking By-law No. 6059 (601 West Hastings Street)
(By-law No. 12407)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development – 1296 West Broadway
Councillor Kirby-Yung requested clarification on Administrative Motion 1 as Council was in receipt
of correspondence related to this address. The City Manager responded, noting this motion is part
of the approval process for the previously-approved 16 storey tower, and no further applications
for this site had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 12
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 1296 West Broadway
(2538 Birch Street being the application address) be approved generally as illustrated in
the Development Application Number DP-2018-00425, prepared by Martin Bruckner of IBI
Group, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on
October 26, 2018, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and
approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the development
character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
2. Approval of Form of Development – 3350 East Kent Avenue South (EFL Parcel 27)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as East Fraser Lands
Waterfront Precinct (3350 East Kent Avenue South being the application address) be
approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2018-00190,
prepared by Bryce Rositch of Rositch Hemphill Architects , and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on September 18, 2018, provided
that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
3. Approval of form of Development – 8605 Laurel Street
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 8605 Laurel Street be
approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2018-00173,
prepared by Sandra Wood of Birmingham and Wood Architecture, and stamped
“Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on March 11, 2018,
provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes
which would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 13
B. Motions on Notice
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT under section 6.8 of the Procedure By-law, Council suspend rule 10.6 of the
Procedure By-law to allow members two minutes to introduce motions and one minute to
ask questions of the mover.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
Earlier in the meeting, Council agreed to deal with Motion on Notice 5 first. For ease of reference,
the minutes are recorded in numerical order.
* * * * *
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Councillor Boyle be granted a Leave of Absence for Civic Business, from any
meeting to be held on Tuesday, April 9, 2019.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04261)
2. Support for Legal Aid
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Legal aid is an essential service which provides people who are marginalized,
vulnerable and poor with access to justice;
2. Legal Aid has been chronically underfunded for over 25 years; rates haven’t
increased since 2006 and BC ranks 10 out of the 12 provinces and territories in
per-capita legal aid funding;
3. This underfunding has made it very difficult for the marginalized, vulnerable and
poor to get legal assistance from a lawyer;
4. Many studies and reports, including those commissioned by Government, have
noted the serious consequences for society by the continued chronic underfunding
of Legal Aid;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 14
5. While both men and women have been negatively impacted by the cuts, services
that were most accessed by women, such as family law and poverty law, were cut
the deepest; without proper legal representation, they are losing custody of their
children, giving up valid legal rights to support, and being subjected to harassment
through the courts;
6. Underfunding legal aid is bad fiscal policy. Existing research shows that increased
funding for legal assistance programs actually saves money, by making the system
more efficient and reducing the burden of health care, mental health and social
welfare costs;
7. Access and rights to justice are fundamental to Reconciliation efforts, recognizing
that Indigenous persons are disproportionately over represented in the justice
system;
8. The Association of Legal Aid Lawyers has been attempting to negotiate
appropriate levels of funding for Legal Aid;
9. Over 590 members of the Association of Legal Aid Lawyers voted overwhelmingly
(97%) to withdraw services on April 1, 2019, to protest the intolerable levels of
funding.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the City of Vancouver recognizes that legal aid is an essential public service
that provides legal representation to the most vulnerable, marginalized and
impoverished members of our city and that the chronic underfunding of legal aid
has led to a serious inequality in the delivery of legal services in our communities.
B. THAT the City of Vancouver believes that lack of legal aid funding is unacceptable
in a province as rich as ours. Many British Columbians face loss of liberty,
homelessness or lose custody of their children when they do not have access to
representation.
C. THAT the City of Vancouver believes the current system puts vulnerable people –
mothers fleeing abusive relationships, employees seeking fair treatment, tenants
facing eviction – at an extreme disadvantage. Those impacted most are our
mothers, sisters, children and grandparents.
D. THAT the City of Vancouver encourages the Province of British Columbia to
resolve this matter with the Association of Legal Aid Lawyers.
referred
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 15
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the motion “Support for Adequate Funding for Legal Aid” be referred to the Standing
Committee on Planning and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 3, 2019, in order to hear
from speakers, starting at 3 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04244)
* * * * *
At 5 pm it was
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the length of the meeting be extended in order to finish the business on the agenda.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
* * * * *
3. Shore to Shore Greenways Plan
MOVED by Councillor Wiebe
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
WHEREAS
1. Greenways connect our communities, schools, parks, green space, waterways and
natural areas with vibrant natural corridors. These connections provide many
benefits, including increasing the urban forest, reducing urban heat, increasing
biodiversity of plants and animals, providing pollinator and bird corridors, and
connecting us to each other and to active and safe ways of moving around the city;
2. The City of Vancouver’s Greenest City 2020 Action Plan has two key targets: to
ensure every person lives within a 5 minute walk of a park, greenway or other
green space and to increase the urban forest canopy cover to 22% by 2050;
3. The Vancouver Park Board’s Biodiversity Strategy has a target to restore or
enhance 25ha of natural areas by 2020 with an emphasis on connecting habitats
for biodiverse plants and animals;
4. The Vancouver Park Board’s Parks and Recreation Services Master Plan set 10
goals to shape the next 25 years. Goal 6 is to “create a green network that will
connect our parks, waterfront and recreation areas” and includes a draft concept
for an interconnected green network;
5. The Vancouver School Board approved the first ever Environmental Sustainability
Plan in 2019 to promote outdoor learning, access to nature and active
transportation;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 16
6. Local municipalities in Metro Vancouver are developing innovative greenway plans
and projects. For example, the City of North Vancouver developed The Green
Necklace, a greenway that forms a 7.5 KM loop linking parks, public spaces and
elementary schools;
7. The Metro Vancouver Regional Greenways update was endorsed in 2019 and is
currently in its planning process. Metro Vancouver‘s Connecting The Dots:
Regional Green Infrastructure Network Resource Guide aims to develop a regional
network that connects green infrastructure for people and animals; and
8. Infrastructure Canada will deliver $3.917 Billion through a bilateral agreement with
the Province of British Columbia under four funding streams, including green
infrastructure, over the next ten years. The City of Vancouver has an opportunity to
apply for new funding for major greenway projects.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back with a scope of
work for the development of Vancouver’s Shore to Shore Greenways Plan that;
i. Refreshes the 1995 Vancouver Greenways Plan with a new collaborative action
plan for the planning, protection and expansion of greenways;
ii. Integrates the plan within the Citywide Plan and the Greenest City 2020 Action
Plan 2.0 and aligns it with other relevant City policies, plans and strategies;
iii. Includes research of current and future projects, a long-term greenway map and
prioritized strategies for collaborating with key groups and governments who share
responsibility for local greenways to complete important connections, such as
Sen̓áḵw to c̓əsnaʔəm, Queen Elizabeth Park to Van Dusen, False Creek to Trout
Lake, The Ridgeway Greenway, Still Creek Regional connection, Experience the
Fraser River Path, Eastside Crosscut, and Hastings Creek;
iv. Clarifies the roles of the City of Vancouver, the Vancouver Park Board,
Metro Vancouver and the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations
in the service delivery of greenways and the centralization, resourcing and
coordination of staff.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04252)
4. Making the Case for Housing All People Counted as Homeless in Shelters or on the
Street
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. People who are homeless have about half the life expectancy of housed people;
2. Studies show that it’s cheaper to house people who are homeless than to provide
services to them on the street;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 17
3. We now have a successful model (through the Modular Housing Program) for
quickly housing street and sheltered homeless people;
4. Modular housing doesn’t have to be temporary if it is built with a foundation;
5. The dramatic increase in homelessness has occurred since the Federal
Government reduced its support for the National Housing Program in the 1990’s;
6. Vancouver spends millions of dollars trying to help, move, house, and respond to
complaints about people who are homeless.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct City of Vancouver staff to develop a human and business
case for the Federal and Provincial governments to increase and co-ordinate
delivery of social housing to house people who are homeless and people at risk of
homelessness. The business case should demonstrate the direct costs incurred by
all three levels of government to deal with homelessness in Vancouver and Metro
Vancouver (depending on scope of research), versus the capital and operating
funding required to build permanent housing for all the counted people who are
homeless and for people at risk of homelessness.
B. THAT the business case includes the amount of funding (capital and operating
grants, excluding financing) that the Federal and Provincial governments have
provided for housing people who are homeless or at risk of homelessness over the
last two year and the annual direct cost of homelessness to the City of Vancouver
(outreach, street/engineering, park rangers, shelters, warming centres, grants to
non-profits to make housing affordable for low income people, DCL exemptions
and waivers for social, supportive and rental housing, value of CAC’s, density
bonusing and inclusionary zoning attributable to housing for people who are
homeless, City land, foregone property taxes, etc.) and the Metro Region
(depending on scope), versus the capital and operating funding required to build
permanent housing (which could be modular) for all the counted people who are
homeless and people at risk of homelessness.
C. THAT the business case be presented to the Federal government by the end of
June, 2019 to allow for maximum impact on election platforms along with requests
to the Federal and Provincial governments for the funds required to house all
people who are counted as homeless and people at risk of homelessness in
Vancouver and (if within scope) the Metro Region.
D. THAT the business case outlined above be made public.
E. THAT staff be asked to consult with modular housing residents and people who are
homeless and groups they belong to, in order to make the human case.
F. THAT if there is not currently the staff capacity to complete this work, that Council
direct staff to procure an outside consultant to prepare the business case.
referred
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 18
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT the motion “Making the Case for Housing All people Counted as Homeless in
Shelters or on the Street” be referred to the Standing Committee on Planning and
Strategic Priorities meeting on April 3, 2019, in order to hear from speakers, following the
previously-referred motion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04254)
5. Review of SNC-Lavalin Relationship with the City of Vancouver
Council agreed to place this motion on the next Regular Council meeting agenda on
April 23, 2019.
6. Re-conceptualizing the City’s Rental 100 Program
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. The goal of the Rental 100 program, in place since 2012, has been to provide more
affordable housing for Vancouver residents;
2. The City of Vancouver’s “10 Year Affordable Housing Delivery and Financial
Strategy,” states that “the City has been successful in increasing housing options
for renter households (both individuals and families) earning $50,000 to
$150,000/year. While this increased supply in rental housing has been welcome
and has addressed the needs of many middle income households, the level of
affordability that can be delivered in market rental homes continues to be a
challenge for households in the lower-income bands. This includes families and
individuals earning less than $50,000/year, individuals who are currently homeless
and those who are at risk of homelessness living in inadequate and unsafe
conditions”;
3. There is growing concern that housing created under the Rental 100 program is
not affordable enough to meet the needs of Vancouver renters, due in part to rules
that allow owners to raise rents without limit after the first tenant leaves and
because initial rents are high;
4. Preservation of existing rental stock has been identified as an important part of
addressing the City’s housing affordability issues and protecting tenants, as
outlined in the February 27, 2019, report to Council: Renter Protection Work
Program;
5. The City now has the ability to zone for rental only so we don’t need incentives for
rental construction as a way of preventing condo construction.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 19
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to include in their Winter 2019 report back on Rental 100
and related matters:
i. How to use rental only zoning to incentivize rental construction that
truly meets the needs of low and middle income renters; and
ii. How to stop incentivizing demovictions by excluding from incentive
programs new rentals that demolish existing affordable rentals.
B. THAT current applicants to the Rental 100 program and those who inquire about it
be alerted to the current Rental Incentive Review underway and “Changing
Vancouver’s Housing By-laws, Policies and Budgets to Achieve Real Housing
Affordability” motion passed February 26, 2019 in order to reduce the possibility of
incurring unintended harm during this time of transition with a newly elected City
Council.
C. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward for enactment
an amendment to the Vancouver Development Cost Levy By-law and the Area
Specific Development Cost Levy By-law that would suspend, as soon as possible,
the development cost levy waiver for for-profit rental housing until a thorough
review of the Rental 100 program can be undertaken.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council refer the motion “Re-conceptualizing the City’s Rental 100 Program” to
staff;
FURTHER THAT STAFF explore, address and include any potential outcomes and/or
recommendations in a Housing Update Policy Report to Council in 2019.
FURTHER THAT staff consult with stakeholders, including applicants who have made
inquiries, submitted pre-applications or applications, and request information on
how changing incentives in policy for purpose-built rental may affect the viability of their
project(s) and ability to deliver affordable housing in the City of Vancouver.
withdrawn
AMENDMENT TO THE REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT the following be added to the reports back requested in the referral:
THAT the report/s back on the full review that is currently underway on the City’s
rental incentive programs by staff include the use of the DCL waiver for market
rental housing projects, and,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 20
THAT the report/s back include external third-party analysis of the impact changing
or ceasing DCL waivers might have on secured marketing rental housing stock
availability and affordability.
THAT the report/s back include potential policy amendments or new policy
recommendations and alternatives, that would support addressing Vancouver’s low
vacancy rate, greater availability of units targeted to lower and middle income
levels, as well as strategies for minimizing the impact on or transitioning existing
affordable rental units.
withdrawn
Following discussion, Councillor Kirby-Yung requested to withdraw her amendment to the referral,
and Councillor De Genova requested to withdraw her motion to refer. Council agreed to withdraw
both.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak had been received.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the motion “Re-conceptualizing the City’s Rental 100 Program” be referred to the
Standing Committee on Planning and Strategic Priorities meeting on April 3, 2019, in order
to hear from speakers, following the previously-referred motions.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04245)
NOTICE OF MOTION
1. Supporting the Ban on Shark Fin Importation Act Bill S238
Councillor Kirby-Yung submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be
placed on the April 23, 2019, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
2. Endorsing the District of Squamish’s LMLGA Motion “Ramping Up Lower Mainland
BC Climate Action in Response to the Climate Emergency”
Councillor Boyle submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be
placed on the April 23, 2019, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
3. Safer Slower Streets: 30 Km/h Residential Street Pilot
Councillor Fry submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will be placed
on the April 23, 2019, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, April 2, 2019 21
NEW BUSINESS
1. Request for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Councillor Dominato be granted leave of absence for Civic Business for any
meetings to be held April 11, 2019, between 3 pm and 5 pm.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 04263)
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Opioid Task Force Update
Councillor Bligh requested an update to the commitment with the Opioid Task Force. Mayor
Stewart agreed to send an update by email.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 5:38 pm.
* * * * *