REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 4, 2018
A Regular Meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday,
December 4, 2018, at 9:36 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
PRESENT: Mayor Kennedy Stewart
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Christine Boyle
Councillor Adriane Carr
Councillor Melissa De Genova* (Civic Business)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Colleen Hardwick
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Jean Swanson*
Councillor Michael Wiebe
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Sadhu Johnston, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations and we thank them for having cared for this land since time immemorial.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council will go into meetings later this week which are closed to the public,
pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss matters related to
paragraphs:
(c) labour relations or other employee relations;
(g) litigation or potential litigation affecting the city;
(i) the receipt of advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including
communications necessary for that purpose;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 2
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Council – November 13, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Council meeting of November 13, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
2. Court of Revision (Local Improvements) – November 22, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Minutes of the Court of Revision (Local Improvements) meeting of
November 22, 2018, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
THAT Council refer the following reports to the Standing Committee on City Finance and
Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers:
• Administrative Report dated October 25, 2018 entitled, “2018 Temporary Modular
Housing Homelessness Action Week Grants”;
• Administrative Report dated October 29, 2018, entitled, “2019 Land Assessment
Averaging: Notice to BC Assessment Authority”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 3
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council adopt Communication 1 and Policy Report 1, on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
REPORT REFERENCE
1. Perspectives on a New City Plan: How Might Young People Stay and Thrive in
Vancouver? SFU Semester in Dialogue at CityStudio
Gil Kelley, General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, along with
undergraduate students in the CityStudio program, provided a presentation on projects
developed in the current semester in Dialogue at CityStudio and responded to questions.
* * * * *
Note: Council previously agreed to deal with UB-1 “Protecting Tenants from Renovictions and
Aggressive By-Outs” at 5 pm.
For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
COMMUNICATIONS
1. 2019 Council Meetings Schedule Revision
A. THAT Council approve a change in the time of the following Business Licence
Hearings from 9:30 am to 6 pm:
Date Scheduled Proposed Meeting Type
Time Time
Tuesday, February 19, 2019 9:30 am 6 pm Business Licence Hearing
Wednesday, April 10, 2019 9:30 am 6 pm Business Licence Hearing
Tuesday, June 18, 2019 9:30 am 6 pm Business Licence Hearing
Wed. September 18, 2019 9:30 am 6 pm Business Licence Hearing
Tuesday, November 19, 2019 9:30 am 6 pm Business Licence Hearing

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 4
B. THAT, due to the public holiday on Monday, November 11, 2019, and to balance
the distribution of Council meetings, Council approve changes to meeting dates
as follows:
Scheduled Date Proposed Date Meeting Type
Tuesday, November 12, 2019 Tuesday, November 5, 2019 Regular Council
Tuesday, November 12, 2019 Tuesday, November 5, 2019 Public Hearing
Wednesday, November 13, Wednesday, November 6, 2019 City Finance &
2019 Services
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03554)
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS
1. 2018 Temporary Modular Housing Homelessness Action Week Grants
October 25, 2018
This report was referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
December 5, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.
2. Capital Grant for 1495 West 8th Avenue (Vancouver Masonic Centre) for Social
Housing
November 15, 2018
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
A. THAT Council approve a grant of $1,910,000 (the “Capital Grant”) to the
Vancouver Masonic Centre Association (“VMCA”) (a registered non-profit
society) to assist with the construction of its proposed social housing
development (the “Development”) at 1495 West 8th Avenue, legally described as
PID: 007-823-011; Lot E, Block 311, District Lot 526, Plan14443 (the “Lands”).
Source of funding to be Development Cost Levies (DCLs) allocated to Housing,
including:
• $880,000 reallocated from the current approved capital budget for
2015-2018 Affordable Housing grant programs;
• $534,000 remaining in 2015-2018 Capital Plan for Affordable Housing
grants; and
• $496,000 to be added to the 2015-2018 Capital Plan for Affordable
Housing grants.
FURTHER THAT the issuance of the Capital Grant be subject to the following
conditions:
i. Execution of a grant agreement (the “Grant Agreement”) on the terms and
conditions as outlined in Administrative Report dated November 15, 2018,

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 5
entitled “Capital Grant for 1495 West 8th Avenue (Vancouver Masonic
Centre) for Social Housing)”, (or signing and returning a grant letter
agreeing in writing to its terms); and
ii. Confirmation of funding/financing sources for the Development being
secured to the satisfaction of the Director of Finance and the Director of
Legal Services.
B. THAT, pursuant to Section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deem the
Vancouver Masonic Centre Association, which is not otherwise a registered
charity with Canada Revenue Agency to be to be an organization that is
contributing to the welfare of the city.
C. THAT the Grant Agreement and/or grant approval letter be on the terms
generally outlined in Administrative Report dated November 15, 2018, entitled
“Capital Grant for 1495 West 8th Avenue (Vancouver Masonic Centre) for Social
Housing”, and otherwise satisfactory to the General Manager Arts, Culture and
Community Services and Director of Legal Services.
D. THAT, the General Manager Arts, Culture and Community Services be
authorized to execute a grant approval letter, and the City Solicitor be authorized
to execute a Grant Agreement, on behalf of the City.
E. THAT no legal rights or obligations are created by the approval of A above
unless and until the Grant Agreement (or letter of approval) is executed and
delivered by the City and the Vancouver Masonic Centre Association and
confirmation of funding/financing sources for the Development has been secured
to the satisfaction of the Directors of Finance and Legal Services.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 03553)
(Councillor Fry abstained from the vote)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
Section 145.1 of the Vancouver Charter states “Where a member present at a meeting abstains
from voting, they are deemed to have voted in the affirmative.”
3. 2019 Land Assessment Averaging: Notice to BC Assessment Authority
October 29, 2018
This report was referred to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
December 5, 2018, in order to hear from speakers.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 6
POLICY REPORTS
1. Reconsideration of Referral for Amendments to Zoning and Development By-law
for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N (Kensington-Cedar
Cottage)
November 26, 2018
THAT Council rescind the motion adopted at the Regular Council Meeting on
July 24, 2018, referring to public hearing the various by-laws, policies and guidelines
referenced in the Policy Report dated July 6, 2018, entitled “Amendments to Zoning and
Development By-law for RT-7 and RT-8 Zones (Kitsilano) and RT-10 and RT-10N
(Kensington-Cedar Cottage) to Increase Housing Choice”.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 03556)
BY-LAWS
Mayor Stewart noted that by-law 2 had been withdrawn.
Councillor Wiebe declared a conflict of interest for by-law 1 as he sits on the Hollywood Arts
Foundation Board. He also advised he had reviewed the proceedings of the meetings related to
by-laws 3 and 4, and would be voting on the enactments.
Councillors Bligh, Boyle, Dominato, Fry, Hardwick, Kirby-Yung, and Mayor Stewart all advised
they had reviewed the proceedings of the meetings related to by-laws 1, 3 and 4, and would be
voting on the enactments.
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council, except for those members ineligible to vote as noted below, enact the
by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as numbers 1, and 3 to 5 inclusive, and
authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-laws.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote on Civic Business)
1. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property
(3123-3129 West Broadway Street – Hollywood Theatre) (By-law No. 12324)
(Councillor Swanson ineligible for the vote and Councillor Wiebe ineligible for the vote due to
Conflict of Interest)
2. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property
(150 Robson Street – Northern Electric Company) - WITHDRAWN
3. A By-law to designate certain real property as protected heritage property
(1853-1857 East 11th Avenue – Karme Residence) (By-law No. 12325)
(Councillor Swanson ineligible for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 7
4. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to rezone an area to
CD-1 (1715 Cook Street) (By-law No. 12326)
(Councillors De Genova and Swanson ineligible for the vote)
5. A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement for 616 East Cordova Street (By-law No. 12327)
MOTIONS
A. Administrative Motions
1. Approval of Form of Development: 410 West Georgia Street (Formerly 400 West
Georgia)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 410 West Georgia
Street be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number
DP-2018-00127, prepared by Merrick Architecture - Borowski Sakumoto Fligg McIntyre
Ltd., and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development Services”, on
August 20, 2018, provided that the Director of Planning may impose conditions and
approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the development
character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillor Swanson absent for the vote)
2. Approval of Form of Development: 3838 Rupert Street (Formerly 3868-3898 Rupert
Street and 3304-3308 East 22nd Avenue)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 3838 Rupert Street
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2017-
01018, prepared by GBL Architects, and stamped “Received, Community Services
Group, Development Services”, on March 17, 2018, provided that the Director of
Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which would not
adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillor Swanson absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 8
3. Approval of Form of Development: 7433 Cambie Street (Pearson Dogwood
Parcel A)
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 500-650 West 57th
Avenue (7433 Cambie Street being the application address) be approved generally as
illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2017-01150, prepared by IBI
Group Architects, and stamped “Received, Community Services Group, Development
Services”, on July 23, 2018, provided that the Director of Planning may impose
conditions and approve design changes which would not adversely affect either the
development character of the site or adjacent properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillor Swanson absent for the vote)
4. Approval of Form of Development: 5733 Alberta Street
MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the form of development for this portion of the site known as 5733 Alberta Street
be approved generally as illustrated in the Development Application Number DP-2017-
00934, prepared by Daniel Eisenberg of GBL Architects, and stamped “Received,
Community Services Group, Development Services”, on October 25, 2018, provided that
the Director of Planning may impose conditions and approve design changes which
would not adversely affect either the development character of the site or adjacent
properties.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote due to Civic Business)
(Councillor Swanson absent for the vote)
B. Motions on Notice
1. Conflict of Interest Rules
Mayor Stewart introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 9
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. When an elected official or senior staff leaves their City Hall office and takes a
new role with a firm that does business with the City, it undermines the special
position of trust with the public that senior staff have;
2. Elected officials and senior civil servants have valuable knowledge and
relationships that can potentially create unfair and profitable advantage for new
employers simply because of the position they currently occupy with the City;
3. Lobbyists currently have unchecked access to decision-makers and the City’s
conflict of interest rules are out-of-date and toothless;
4. Conflict of interest rules improve public confidence in municipal governance;
5. Current City of Vancouver Code of Conduct prohibits employees from relaying
confidential information for the purpose of securing a private benefit for
themselves or for any other person, and requires avoidance of voting on issues
when they personally think they are in conflict, but does not address conflict of
interest post-employment or for family members;
6. Federal, provincial, and other city governments have longstanding conflict of
interest legislation.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT staff be directed to report back to Council regarding how the City can improve its
current Conflict of Interest policy including consideration of the following:
i. Requirements for elected officials and their spouses to proactively disclose
assets, liabilities, and financial interests;
ii. Prohibitions on elected officials from engaging in employment, practicing a
profession, carrying on a business, or holding an office or directorship, if these
activities are likely to conflict with their public duties;
iii. Prohibitions on elected officials and key staff members from accepting City of
Vancouver contracts or lobbying for 12 months after leaving their positions;
iv. How current and new regulations will be administered and monitored, including
through a new and independent office; and,
v. An assessment of associated costs and delivery timelines.
referred

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 10
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Conflict of Interest Rules” to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in
order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03557)
(Councillor Fry opposed)
2. Lobbyist Registry for the City of Vancouver
Mayor Stewart introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Boyle
WHEREAS
1. The public has an increasing interest in greater transparency in government and
the City of Vancouver has been at the forefront of efforts to increase access to
information, including establishing the first open data policy for a major city in
Canada;
2. Lobbyist registries are intended to provide a public record that is accessible to
residents of interactions between public servants, elected officials and lobbyists
and to allow for rules regarding lobbyists to be enforced;
3. Previous Councils have repeatedly asked staff to investigate options for creating
a municipal lobbyist registry between 2006 and 2017;
4. British Columbia does not currently allow municipalities to use the provincial
lobbyist registry nor does it extend the legal authorities municipalities would need
to enforce lobbyist rules with a local registry;
5. In 2017, City staff produced a memo on February 8, 2017, for the previous
council outlining options for how the Province can provide the City with the ability
to register lobbyists, create rules for lobbyist's conduct in their interactions with
elected officials and public servants, and the ability to enforce those rules;
6. On February 21, 2017, the previous Council unanimously adopted a motion that
was then submitted as a resolution to the 2017 Union of BC Municipalities
convention asking the Province to provide municipalities with the ability to
register lobbyists, create rules for lobbyists’ conduct in their interactions with
elected officials and public servants, and the ability to enforce those rules;
7. The City’s resolution was successfully adopted by Union of BC Municipalities

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 11
delegates in September 2017 and forwarded to the Province for response;
8. The most recent response by the Province in February 2018 to the 2017 Union of
BC Municipalities resolution affirmed the Province is willing to discuss the matter
further.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT the City request the Province immediately take one of the following two actions in
response to the resolutions adopted by the previous Council and Union of BC
Municipalities in 2017 regarding the regulation of municipal lobbyists:
i. The Province amend the Lobbyist Registration Act to cover the City of Vancouver
and administer the regulation of lobbying in the city; OR,
ii. The Province amend the Vancouver Charter to allow the City to establish a
lobbyist registry and give the City the legal authority to register lobbyists, create
rules for lobbyists’ conduct in their interactions with elected officials and public
servants, as well as the power to enforce those rules. In addition, the Province
further empower the Provincial Registrar of Lobbyists to work with the City to
share information so as to reduce duplication and costs for both levels of
government.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Lobbyist Registry for the City of Vancouver” to
the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at
9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03558)
3. Possible Amendments to By-law 6066 to Allow for Safe and Licensed Ride Sharing
in Vancouver
Councillor De Genova introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is currently the largest city in North America that does not offer
ride-sharing (ride-hailing) services like Uber or Lyft;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 12
2. MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Drivers) Canada and Barwatch are among
several associations and organizations that are calling for ride-share in the city of
Vancouver;
3. “Ride Sharing Now For BC” represents more than 30 local organizations calling
for ride-sharing in British Columbia including Able BC, Barwatch, BC Chamber of
Commerce, BC Epilepsy Society, BC Restaurants and Food Services
Association, BC Tech Association, Business Council of British Columbia,
Canadian National Institute for the Blind, Downtown Vancouver Business
Improvement Association, Greater Vancouver Board of Trade, Harbour Air,
Hospitality Vancouver Association, Mothers Against Drunk Drivers (MADD),
Restaurants Canada, Vancouver Economic Commission, Vancouver Pride
Society, Vision Loss Rehabilitation Canada;
4. The February 2018 report on Transportation Network Companies from The
Standing Committee on Crown Corporations, of the Legislative Assembly of
British Columbia cites the measures other cities and provinces have taken in
consideration of safety and insurance when implementing ride sharing and ride
hailing services;
5. The Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), requires all drivers to
purchase Basic Autoplan insurance coverage, while additional insurance may be
purchased from private insurance providers;
6. Tourists and travelers are unable to use the same app based ride-sharing
services in Vancouver as they can in across Canada and 600 other cities around
the world;
7. The Entertainment District located in the city of Vancouver is unique to the
region, and stakeholders have often voiced issues with late night transportation
that is beyond what licensed taxis for hire can accommodate.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the Mayor write a letter on behalf of Council to the Premier of BC, the
Minister of Transportation, and Attorney General and Minister Responsible for
the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC):
i) Affirming support for ride-sharing to be introduced alongside taxi cabs in
the city of Vancouver in an equitable manner; and
ii) Calling for per kilometer ridesharing and taxi insurance products to be
made available to companies by April 2019 in line with other changes the
province is making to ICBC announced on November 9, 2018.
B. THAT staff report back to Council with analysis and options for ride-sharing and
ride-hailing so that council can provide direction to staff. Subsequently, staff
report back with proposed by-law changes to allow for ride-sharing and ride-
hailing and include information addressing:

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 13
i) The ability of the City of Vancouver to amend or create by-laws to
promote the inclusion and operation of companies offering on-demand
ride-sharing and ride-hailing services; and
ii) The impact removing municipal boundaries for taxis, including accessible
taxis, may have on serving the public and especially persons with
disabilities in the city of Vancouver.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Possible Amendments to By-law 6066 to Allow
for Safe and Licensed Ride Sharing in Vancouver” to the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in order to hear from
speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03559)
4. Building a Family Friendly Vancouver: Affordable Child Care
Councillor De Genova introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is facing an affordability crisis. A lack of affordable housing and
affordable childcare are limiting the abilities of families to continue to live in the
city of Vancouver;
2. In 2018, the Provincial Government released “Childcare B.C., Caring for Kids,
Lifting up Families: The Path to Universal Childcare”. The document states
“Vancouver is one of the most expensive cities for Childcare with a median fee of
$1,250 per month for infant and toddler care”. The document also commits to
providing grants to local governments in British Columbia to support building new
child care spaces and creating plans to inform local needs;
3. On June 26, 2018, The City of Vancouver issued a press release celebrating
1064 new child care spaces. On the City of Vancouver website, Mayor Gregor
Robertson is stated as saying “Making sure that families have access to
affordable childcare is a key part of building a healthy, inclusive city and helps set
our kids up for success now and down the road”;
4. The City of Vancouver Document “Technical Guidelines” published by Real

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 14
Estate and Facilities Management in May of 2018 states that “Development
Permits may be required for new childcare facilities. Building and Occupancy
Permits are required for all new childcare facilities;
5. A Child Care Facility’s childcare license will need to be obtained by the Childcare
Operator from Community Care Facilities Licensing, a department of Vancouver
Coastal Health, before an Occupancy Permit can be obtained. Nowhere in the
document does it state that there is a policy to streamline and expedite the
processes associated with permits and licensing for new childcare facilities;
6. The City of Vancouver Document “Steps for Establishing a Child Care Centre in
an Existing Building” published by the Social Development Department was last
updated in 2008;
7. The City of Vancouver website page “Developing a childcare centre” states “Staff
work with developers, architects, landscape architects, and early childhood
educators to make sure that every new center includes urban design best
practices, and contributes to a child’s mental and physical development”. There
is no mention of incentives or expediting the processes for childcare facilities in
Vancouver.
8. On September 19, 2018, the motion entitled “Family Friendly Vancouver:
Citywide Policy to Fast Track and Expedite Projects that include new Child Care
Centres in the City of Vancouver” was referred to staff. It is anticipated that staff
will report back to Council in June 2019.
9. On September 2018, the British Columbia Ministry of Children and Family
Development issued a press release titled “Partnerships give B.C. families
quicker access to child care”. The release states “Municipal and regional
government in B.C. are eligible for up to $1 million per project through the new
Community Child Care Space Creation Program. Priority will be given to projects
that build spaces that serve infants and toddlers, offer care outside of regular
business hours, are operated by a public body or non-profit, and/or benefit
underserved populations”.
10. Phase 1 Actions of the Women’s Equity Strategy include “Identify child-friendly
provisions to accommodate participation by families with children at Council and
public hearings at City Hall.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council directs the City of Vancouver staff to formally contact the
appropriate Ministry of Children and Family Development staff to discuss
opportunities for the City of Vancouver to secure funding for future projects from
the Community Child Care Space Creation Program and report back to Council
within the potential for provincial funding.
B. THAT Council direct staff to explore ways the City of Vancouver can work with
organizations and agencies including Vancouver Coastal Health and the
BC government to streamline and expedite the processes associated with

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 15
permits and licensing for child care facilities in Vancouver.
C. THAT Council direct staff to explore a program to create incentives for applicants
to include child care in future developments and report back to Council in spring
of 2019; however, if funding from senior levels of government becomes available
sooner, that staff prioritize and expedite a report and any recommendations to
Council
D. THAT Council direct staff to consider purpose-built child care, including
temporary structures similar to modular housing when appropriate.
FURTHER THAT staff consider requirements for child care facilities to be
included; when appropriate, on any development of City Owned Land.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor De Genova
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Building a Family Friendly Vancouver: Affordable
Child Care” to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03560)
5. Land Value Capture in the City of Vancouver
Councillor Boyle introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Swanson
WHEREAS
1. Land speculation has had a significant impact on increasing land values within
Vancouver, deepening the city’s affordability crisis and putting a significant
portion of housing out of reach at local incomes;
2. Rezoning, density increases and redevelopment also have a significant impact
on increasing land values, including all the surrounding land immediately in the
proximity of developed land;
3. Infrastructure projects in Vancouver, such as hospitals, new roads, new transit,
parks, or other development decisions approved by the city, there is a dramatic
increase in the value of surrounding land. That wealth is not captured but rather
becomes a transfer of wealth from the public to private landowners;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 16
4. The increase in land value due to market demand is not captured by anyone
except the property owner, who may withhold development awaiting land value
lift or rezoning, then capture the majority of the wealth with limited social benefit;
5. Vancouver is now one of the most expensive cities in the Western hemisphere,
with a lack of available affordable housing, and a lack of sufficient financial tools
for ensuring new housing is truly affordable for low and modest incomes;
6. Over the past 20-plus years, municipalities have experienced cost downloading
from senior levels of government, including housing and social infrastructure,
without new municipal finance tools or revenue to fund those costs;
7. A Land Value Capture (LVC) mechanism is designed to dampen speculation and
generate revenue by measuring and ‘capturing’ a portion of the increase in land
value (created by rezoning, public investments, etc.) to direct toward public
priorities;
8. LVC has the potential to be a more transparent method of capturing land value
than Vancouver’s existing CAC system, and more accurate than Development
Contribution Expectations (DCEs). Applied broadly, it decreases rampant land
speculation and unfettered value increases, thus ensuring long term affordability;
9. The creation of a City Wide plan creates a timely opportunity to be exploring and
implementing a municipally controlled financial mechanism such as a LVC;
10. Some form of LVC is in use in about 25 countries around the world, including
South Africa, Australia and New Zealand. A few jurisdictions in the U.S., mostly
in Pennsylvania, also use a blended version that is partly a land value tax and
partly a buildings tax.1 And Vancouver had a Land Value Tax from 1910 to
1984.2
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to work with policy makers, researchers, and BC
Assessment to explore how Council could create, adopt and consistently apply a
land value capture mechanism to collect a percentage of the wealth being
created by public decision makers in the City of Vancouver. This would include:
i. Exploring how a Land Value Capture (LVC) could work within, or replace,
Vancouver’s existing system of Community Amenities Contributions
(CACs) and Development Contribution Expectations (DCEs) to reduce
backlog in approval, and fairly capture the value of wealth created by land
rezoning and public infrastructure projects;
ii. Determining the most appropriate time to set the baseline value and at
which point during sale or redevelopment to capture the new value;
1 https://earthsharing.ca/news/land-value-taxation-vancouver
2 England, Christopher. "Land Value Taxation in Vancouver: Rent Seeking and the Tax Revolt." American
Journal of Economics and Sociology 77.1 (2018): 59-94.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 17
iii. Considering other factors including: the ideal percentage of value to
capture, the impact on various property classifications, the potential
revenue that would be generated, the impact on development, and the
potential scope of the policy;
vi. Outlining next steps for the City of Vancouver to work with the Province to
develop a ‘made-in-Vancouver’ land value capture. And outlining next
steps for working with Translink to model a land value capture
mechanism for transit infrastructure investments, including partially
funding an extension of the Broadway subway to UBC;
vii. Articulating clear jurisdictional expectations that ensure such a tool would
remain within the control of the City, with revenue to go toward local
priorities (including truly-affordable housing).
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council by May 2019 with their initial
findings and recommendations.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Land Value Capture in the City of Vancouver” to
the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at
9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03561)
6. Motion Calling for 600 More Units of Modular Housing in 2019
Councillor Swanson introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
The following motion contains revisions to the original Motion on Notice.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. 2181 homeless people were counted in Vancouver this year;
2. Homeless people have about half the life expectancy as housed people;
3. Being homeless causes suffering and poor health;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 18
4. The city spends millions of dollars dealing with the impact of homelessness with
shelters, outreach programs, street cleaning, etc.;
5. The BC government’s Homes for BC plan promises an additional $291 million in
capital funding and $216 million in operating funding for housing for homeless
people over the 2018-2021 period;
6. Many people who get into modular homes feel they have won the lottery;
7. Hundreds of SRO residents face poor conditions, rent hikes, gentrification, and
building closures and need alternate housing;
8. Hundreds of SRO units have been lost to low income people in the last two years
through closures and rent hikes.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to find sites for 600 more modular housing units for
people who are homeless and report back by the end of January 2019.
B. THAT Council task the Mayor with working diligently with provincial officials to
secure at least an additional 600 modular housing units in 2019.
C. THAT any new modular housing must make accommodations for family units and
for Indigenous women's specific needs for safe housing as an absolute high
priority.
D. THAT women must be better represented in all modular housing buildings with
specific needs for safety and women’s leadership taken into account; and
E. THAT all levels of government must ensure that women are prioritized in
placements into modular housing, and must require all operators of all modular
housing to have an intersectional gender strategy in place that keeps women
safe and housed.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Motion Calling for 600 More Units of Modular
Housing in 2019” to the Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on
December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03562)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 19
7. Call for the ABC Plan for an Accountable, Bold and Comprehensive Poverty
Reduction Plan for British Columbia
Councillor Swanson introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver’s website states that: “Poverty is a barrier to prosperity,
not an alternative to it”;
2. Vancouver has the second highest gap in income between rich and poor of
Canadian cities3, vast visible poverty in the Downtown Eastside, and more than
10% of the working-age population are people who are working poor4. Poverty
disproportionately affects certain communities in Vancouver, often as the result
of historical dispossession, systemic racism and inequality;
3. Median personal income in Vancouver is 8 per cent lower than for Canada
overall, despite its escalating cost of living. 44% of people in Vancouver, more
than 250,000 people, live in families with incomes less than the living wage;
4. Many impacts of poverty are experienced at the local level, and local residents
pay for poverty in increased health care costs, higher crime, higher demand for
community, social and charitable services, lack of school readiness, reduced
school success, and lower economic productivity;
5. The poorest people in Vancouver are those on welfare or unable to get on
welfare. There is an insufficient number of social housing and shelter-rate units to
meet the growing need. Vancouver is seeing increasing numbers of homeless
people, with a very low vacancy rate, and welfare rates that do not provide
enough money to cover food and shelter. As a result, the city spends millions of
dollars trying to help people who are homeless and mitigate against the worst
impacts of the housing crisis on our most vulnerable residents;
6. A long overdue increase in income and disability assistance rates, targeted
measures to address the number of women and child living in poverty, rent
control (including vacancy control), and legislated targets and timelines, would
help ensure that government money spent to reduce poverty would benefit those
most marginalized;
7. A poverty reduction plan will save lives and money as it is a social and economic
investment in our province;
3 “Prosperity for all through a Healthy Communities Approach: Vancouver’s Recommendations to the Federal
Government’s National Poverty Reduction Strategy, July 2017.” p 3.
4 Source: statistics Canada, 2012. Cited in www.policyalternatives.ca/van-working-poverty

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 20
8. The BC Poverty Reduction Coalition is a broad-based network of over 400
organizations including community and non profit groups, faith groups, health
organizations, indigenous organizations, businesses, labour organizations, and
social policy groups; ‐
9. The Coalition has renewed its call for a strong poverty reduction plan for British
Columbia by launching the ABC Plan, which outlines an accountable, bold and
comprehensive poverty reduction plan to prevent and reduce poverty in British
Columbia.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council support the BC Poverty Reduction Coalition’s ABC Plan for an
accountable, bold and comprehensive poverty reduction plan for British Columbia
as set out on the BC Poverty Reduction Coalition website:
https://www.abcplan.ca/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/Policy-Brief.pdf.
B. THAT Council advocate to the Provincial Government to develop and implement
a provincial poverty reduction strategy that includes the measures within the
Accountable, Bold and Comprehensive Poverty Reduction Plan for British
Columbia before February 2019, with the commitment that Council will work with
the Provincial Government in implementing this plan.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Swanson
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Call for the ABC Plan for an Accountable, Bold
and Comprehensive Poverty Reduction Plan for British Columbia” to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in
order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03563)
8. A Proposed Alternative to Provincial Encroachment on the City of Vancouver’s
Municipal Tax Base
Councillor Bligh introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
WHEREAS
1. Property taxes are the main source of tax revenue for the City of Vancouver and
other British Columbia municipalities;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 21
2. In addition to municipal property taxes, the City of Vancouver also collects school
taxes on behalf of the Province and remits these revenues to the Province;
3. Starting in 2019, the Province of British Columbia plans to apply a controversial
surcharge on the provincial school tax, the proceeds of which will flow to the
Province’s general tax revenues;
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/taxes/property-taxes/annual-property-
tax/school-tax
4. The Province’s surcharge on school taxes will apply to most “high-valued
residential properties in the province”, specifically those assessed at $3 million or
more;
5. The Province’s school tax surtax rate will be an additional 0.2 percent on the
residential portion of properties assessed between $3 million and $4 million
(i.e., an additional $2,000 surtax), and 0.4 percent on the residential portion of
properties assessed over $4 million (i.e., an additional $4,000 surtax per million
of assessed value);
6. Unlike the provincial school tax, and municipal property taxes, the Province’s
new surtax is not based on an equitable mill rate – it is based on a straight
percentage of assessed value and assumed wealth, and it sets a controversial
precedent;
7. There is an inequitable collection of the tax from those municipalities that have a
higher distribution of homes valued over $3 million, including the City of
Vancouver;
8. The Province’s surcharge on the provincial school tax represents an
encroachment on the City of Vancouver’s municipal tax base. Residents could
perceive the increase on their property tax bill is a result of municipal financial
mismanagement and thus could ‘revolt’ against City of Vancouver property tax
increases.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT the Mayor of Vancouver on behalf of City Council send a letter to the Premier,
BC Minister of Finance, Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the BC Green Party
requesting that the Province withdraw the proposed surcharge on the provincial school
tax and recommend that the Province use other tax-generating options available to the
Province, such as the progressive income tax system, to fund the BC budget; and
. FURTHER THAT it be noted in the letter to the BC Minister of Finance that the
Province’s progressive income tax base could more equitably generate the $250 million
in revenue that the surtax is expected to raise toward the provincial budget – e.g., a
0.25-per-cent increase applied to the top income tax bracket would mean that a taxpayer
with a net income of less than $150,000 per year would pay no additional income tax
while someone earning a net income of $250,000 per year would only pay $250 in
additional income tax.
referred

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 22
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor De Genova
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “A Proposed Alternative to Provincial
Encroachment on the City of Vancouver’s Municipal Tax Base” to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in
order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03564)
9. Mayor’s Office Budget Review
Councillor Dominato introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver 2018 Operating Budget allocated $3.050 million to the
direct operational costs of the Mayor and Council, with 43 percent (i.e. $1.312
million) of that amount allocated to the Mayor and the remaining 57 percent
(i.e. $1.738) million allocated to the activities of the 10 other members of Council;
2. The City of Vancouver’s 2016 Statement of Financial Information indicates that
the Mayor’s Office discretionary expenses for 2016 totalled $783,090 while the
discretionary expenses for all City Councillors totalled $14,517 – collectively less
than 2 percent of the Mayor’s expenditures;
3. The City of Vancouver’s 2017 Statement of Financial Information indicates that
the Mayor’s Office discretionary expenses for 2017 totalled $706,165 while the
discretionary expenses for all City Councillors totalled $20,880 – collectively less
than 3 percent of the Mayor’s expenditures;
4. During the previous Council term from 2014 to 2018, the Mayor’s office budget
and discretionary expense fund were the subject of considerable scrutiny,
notably substantial expenditures on political staff and consultants;
5. In April 2016, Council enacted By-law 11483 (Mayor and Council Remuneration
By-law) and By-law 11620 (minor amendment to 11483) to replace By-law 7465
and provide for updated base salaries for Deputy Mayor, Acting Mayor and
Councillors, as well as to provide for annual adjustments to Mayor and
Councillors’ salaries based on the change in the Consumer Price Index for
Vancouver (all items) for the 12 months ending October the previous year;
6. In June 2016, By-law 11529 (Mayor and Council Expense By-law) was enacted
to replace By-law 8904 and established the annual discretionary fund for each

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 23
Councillor to cover eligible expenses incurred while carrying out constituency
activities;
7. By-law 11529 (Mayor and Council Expense By-law) included housekeeping
amendments to provide clarifications for various eligible expenses, including the
Mayor’s discretionary fund which includes expenses incurred by the Mayor or his
staff for meetings and conferences, travel, communications,
consulting/contracting services, research/information gathering, and community
outreach;
8. Prior to the enactment of By-laws 11483 and 11529, the City of Vancouver 2015
Operating Budget included a substantial 23.6% increase to the Mayor’s budget –
a $0.2 million increase to support the Mayor's role as Chair of TransLink Mayors'
Council, the Big City Mayors' Caucus, Vancouver Police Board, and Vancouver
Economic Commission; https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/vancouver-2015-
budget.pdf
9. The recent municipal elections in Metro Vancouver have resulted in changes to
the makeup of the TransLink Mayors’ Council and will potentially lead to changed
roles on other bodies such as the Big City Mayors’ Caucus;
10. Newly-elected Vancouver Mayor Kennedy Stewart has demonstrated his
commitment to a different approach to governing, for example, restoring the
traditional rotation of the Deputy Mayor duties, as well as appointing Councillors
to various boards and committees on a non-partisan basis.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct the 2019 Budget Committee to review the Mayor’s Office
and Council budgets in the context of current fiscal requirements and the new
spirit of equity exhibited by Mayor Stewart, prior to the Special Council meeting
on the 2019 budget scheduled for December 11, 2018.
B. THAT the Chair of the 2019 Budget Committee provide a memo to Council on
behalf of the Committee with any recommendations regarding savings and
efficiencies that could be achieved within these budgets (to be incorporated into
the 2019 Draft Operating Budget), as well as any appropriate options to
re-allocate portions of the Mayor’s Office budget to support the duties and
constituency activities of City Councillors.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Mayor’s Office Budget Review” to the Standing
Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at 9:30 am, in
order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03565)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 24
10. Creating a ‘Baseline Review’ Task Force
Councillor Hardwick introduced the motion.
Mayor Stewart advised requests to speak to this motion had been received.
MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Bligh
WHEREAS
1. With any newly elected government body, there is a responsibility to understand
what the baseline finances are in detail;
2. It has been ten (10) years since the City undertook a comprehensive financial
review;
3. The City’s operating budget has doubled since 2008 and the new Council has a
duty to understand year over year where the areas of expenditures have
increased;
4. A review will give the new Council a baseline of knowledge so any financial
decisions made going forward can be informed ones;
5. A review will provide Council an understanding of what the current and projected
financial capacity is of the City and what contingencies, risks, and assumptions
have been considered in that determination;
6. A review will also help Council identify potential opportunities for efficiencies.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT to ensure the new Council is meeting the
responsibilities of building a great city in keeping with its mandate under the Vancouver
Charter and demonstrating transparency and fiscal responsibility from the start, that:
A. Council appoint a three (3) member, independent Oversight Commission to
undertake a baseline review of all city finances.
B. Council direct staff to report back to Council by December 18, 2018 with draft
Terms of Reference, schedule and details of the review for the Independent
Oversight Commission for Council to approve, including a recommended budget
for the Commission’s work, with an expectation that the Commission reports
back to Council by end of February 2019 to help inform current and future
financial issues including the 2020 budget planning process. The intent is for an
expeditious review process of about six (6) weeks.
referred

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 25
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Hardwick
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council refer the motion entitled “Creating a ‘Baseline Review’ Task Force” to the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services meeting on December 5, 2018, at
9:30 am, in order to hear from speakers.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03566)
* * * * *
Council recessed at noon and reconvened at 3:02 pm.
* * * * *
NOTICE OF MOTION
1. Weddings at Vancouver City Hall
Councillor De Genova submitted a Notice of Motion on the above-noted matter. The motion will
be placed on the December 18, 2018, Regular Council agenda as a Motion on Notice.
ENQUIRIES AND OTHER MATTERS
1. Update on Referred Members Motions
Councillor De Genova requested an update on her request for a list of members motions that
have been referred and still require follow-up. The City Manager advised an update will be
provided within the week providing this information.
2. Money Laundering in the BC Real Estate Sector
Councillor Boyle requested to extend an invitation to Peter German to present to Council after
his report on money laundering in the BC real estate sector is released in the Spring of 2019.
3. Rental Booking Policies at Civic Facilities
Councillor Fry requested a consolidated list of rental booking policies at civic facilities. The City
Manager agreed to provide a memo with the information.
* * * * *
Council recessed at 3:17 pm and reconvened at 5:06 pm.
* * * * *

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 26
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. Protecting Tenants from Renovictions and Aggressive Buy-Outs
On November 28, 2018, Vancouver City Council, at its meeting immediately following the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities, referred debate and decision on the
above-noted motion to the Regular Council meeting to be held December 4, 2018, at 5 pm, as
Unfinished Business.
MOVED by Councillor Swanson
WHEREAS
1. We have a housing emergency in Vancouver and one big part of that emergency
is caused when investors renovict tenants from moderately priced rental
buildings in order to turn them into luxury commodities;
2. We need immediate action to save renters from eviction and to preserve
affordable rental housing;
3. The Goodman Report on Vancouver apartment building sales from January 2018
through October 24, 2018, says that 56 buildings with 2456 units have been sold
in Vancouver;
4. A profit motive exists to displace existing long-term residents in order to increase
rental revenues;
5. Tenants are being approached by their new landlords, sometimes harassed and
pressured to accept buy-outs without being fully informed of their rights;
6. Such buy-outs are occurring before the landlord is eligible to legally issue notice
under the Residential Tenancy Act;
7. Many of these tenants have to find new apartments paying hundreds of dollars
more per month or move out of the City;
8. Evicted tenants have fewer resources left to spend on necessities and in local
businesses;
9. Losing affordable rental housing stock to renoviction and buyouts will nullify the
positive impact of new lower income social housing that governments and
non-profits can build;
10. The BC Tenancy Policy Guideline of May 2018 says a landlord cannot end a
tenancy for the purpose of renovations or repairs if “It is possible to carry out the
renovations or repairs without ending the tenancy (i.e. if the tenant is willing to
temporarily empty or vacate the unit during the renovations or repairs, and then
move back in once they are complete)”;
11. The buyout and renoviction process is incredibly stressful and anxiety-producing
for tenants;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 27
12. The implementation of vacancy control at the provincial level could substantively
resolve some of these problems; and
13. The province’s Rental Housing Task Force will be making recommendations this
month.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the City immediately amend its Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy to
the extent of its authority under the Vancouver Charter to:
i Apply to all forms of rental accommodation, all areas of Vancouver and to
all permits which will result in the temporary or permanent displacement
of tenants;
ii Require landlords to offer displaced tenants the opportunity to temporarily
move out for the necessary duration of the renovations without their
leases ending or rent increasing, in accordance with the Residential
Tenancy Act and the Residential Tenancy Branch Policy Guideline 2 of
May 2018.
B. THAT the City devise methods to keep track of all apartment buildings sold in
Vancouver and immediately provide affected tenants with information as to their
tenancy rights by mail.
C. THAT the City explore measures, including changes to the Vancouver Charter if
necessary, to regulate and publicly register all tenant buyouts.
D. THAT the City immediately and forcefully call on the province to implement
effective vacancy controls for British Columbia, or alternatively, to give the City of
Vancouver the power to regulate maximum rent increases during and between
tenancies.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Carr
SECONDED by Councillor Wiebe
THAT D be amended to insert the words “work with the city” after “call on the province”
and strike out “vacancy controls for British Columbia” and insert “vacancy controls for
the City of Vancouver”, to read as follows:
D. The City immediately and forcefully call on the province to work with the City to
implement effective vacancy controls for the city of Vancouver, or alternatively, to
give Vancouver the power to regulate maximum rent increases during and
between tenancies.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03567)
(Councillor Bligh opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 28
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Carr
THAT the following be inserted as E:
E. THAT staff report back as early as possible in the first quarter 2019, with:
i. Language and a timeline for the City to call upon the province for an
immediate amendment to the Vancouver Charter permitting the City to
pass regulations and perform actions that affect tenancy issues, provided
those regulations and actions do not otherwise conflict with
the Residential Tenancy Act, its regulations, those policy guidelines that
relate to it, or the Supreme Court of British Columbia's interpretation
thereof;
ii. An assessment of staff time and resources, and the impacts of
implementing these measures;
iii. Other measures the City can undertake to protect tenants from
renovictions, demovictions, and aggressive buyouts, in addition to those
identified in A, B, C, and D above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03568)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
REFERRAL MOVED by Mayor Stewart
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT A(i) and D be referred to staff with direction to report back as early as possible in
the first quarter 2019 on the impact these policies would have on renters and rental
supply in Vancouver.
CARRIED (Vote No. 03569)
(Councillors Boyle and Swanson opposed)
(Councillor De Genova absent for the vote)
The amendments having carried, the final motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 03570) with Councillor De Genova absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS ADOPTED
Note: Lettering has changed from original motion to incorporate amendments.
WHEREAS
1. We have a housing emergency in Vancouver and one big part of that emergency
is caused when investors renovict tenants from moderately priced rental
buildings in order to turn them into luxury commodities;
2. We need immediate action to save renters from eviction and to preserve
affordable rental housing;

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 29
3. The Goodman Report on Vancouver apartment building sales from January 2018
through October 24, 2018, says that 56 buildings with 2456 units have been sold
in Vancouver;
4. A profit motive exists to displace existing long-term residents in order to increase
rental revenues;
5. Tenants are being approached by their new landlords, sometimes harassed and
pressured to accept buy-outs without being fully informed of their rights;
6. Such buy-outs are occurring before the landlord is eligible to legally issue notice
under the Residential Tenancy Act;
7. Many of these tenants have to find new apartments paying hundreds of dollars
more per month or move out of the City;
8. Evicted tenants have fewer resources left to spend on necessities and in local
businesses;
9. Losing affordable rental housing stock to renoviction and buyouts will nullify the
positive impact of new lower income social housing that governments and
non-profits can build;
10. The BC Tenancy Policy Guideline of May 2018 says a landlord cannot end a
tenancy for the purpose of renovations or repairs if “It is possible to carry out the
renovations or repairs without ending the tenancy (i.e. if the tenant is willing to
temporarily empty or vacate the unit during the renovations or repairs, and then
move back in once they are complete)”;
11. The buyout and renoviction process is incredibly stressful and anxiety-producing
for tenants;
12. The implementation of vacancy control at the provincial level could substantively
resolve some of these problems; and
13. The province’s Rental Housing Task Force will be making recommendations this
month.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the City immediately amend its Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy to
the extent of its authority under the Vancouver Charter to require landlords to
offer displaced tenants the opportunity to temporarily move out for the necessary
duration of the renovations without their leases ending or rent increasing, in
accordance with the Residential Tenancy Act and the Residential Tenancy
Branch Policy Guideline 2 of May 2018.
B. THAT the City devise methods to keep track of all apartment buildings sold in
Vancouver and immediately provide affected tenants with information as to their
tenancy rights by mail.

Regular Council Meeting
Minutes, December 4, 2018 30
C. THAT the City explore measures, including changes to the Vancouver Charter if
necessary, to regulate and publicly register all tenant buyouts.
D. THAT staff report back as early as possible in the first quarter 2019, with:
i. Language and a timeline for the City to call upon the province for an
immediate amendment to the Vancouver Charter permitting the City to
pass regulations and perform actions that affect tenancy issues, provided
those regulations and actions do not otherwise conflict with
the Residential Tenancy Act, its regulations, those policy guidelines that
relate to it, or the Supreme Court of British Columbia's interpretation
thereof;
ii. An assessment of staff time and resources, and the impacts of
implementing these measures;
iii. Other measures the City can undertake to protect tenants from
renovictions, demovictions, and aggressive buyouts, in addition to those
identified in A, B, and C above.
E. THAT the following be referred to staff with direction to report back as early as
possible in the first quarter 2019 on the impact these policies would have on
renters and rental supply in Vancouver:
i. The City amend its Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy to the extent
of its authority under the Vancouver Charter to apply to all forms of rental
accommodation, all areas of Vancouver and to all permits which will result
in the temporary or permanent displacement of tenants;
ii. The City immediately and forcefully call on the province to work with the
City to implement effective vacancy controls for the City of Vancouver, or
alternatively, to give Vancouver the power to regulate maximum rent
increases during and between tenancies.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Boyle
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 5:49 pm.
* * * * *

The foregoing are Minutes of the Regular Council Meeting of December 4, 2018, adopted by
Council on December 18, 2018.
___________________________
MAYOR
___________________________
CITY CLERK